0		on monday, scientists from the stanford university school of medicine announced the invention of a new diagnostic tool that can sort cells by type: a tiny printable chip that can be manufactured using standard inkjet printers for possibly about one u.s. cent each.
1		lead researchers say this may bring early detection of cancer, tuberculosis, hiv and malaria to patients in low-income countries, where the survival rates for illnesses such as breast cancer can be half those of richer countries.
2		the jas 39c gripen crashed onto a runway at around 9:30 am local time (0230 utc) and exploded, closing the airport to commercial flights.
3		the pilot was identified as squadron leader dilokrit pattavee.
4		local media reports an airport fire vehicle rolled over while responding.
5		28-year-old vidal had joined barça three seasons ago, from sevilla.
6		since moving to the catalan-capital, vidal had played 49 games for the club.
7		the protest started around 11:00 local time (utc+1) on whitehall opposite the police-guarded entrance to downing street, the prime minister's official residence.
8		just after 11:00, protesters blocked traffic on the northbound carriage in whitehall.
9		at 11:20, the police asked the protesters to move back on to the pavement, stating that they needed to balance the right to protest with the traffic building up.
10		around 11:29, the protest moved up whitehall, past trafalgar square, along the strand, passing by aldwych and up kingsway towards holborn where the conservative party were holding their spring forum in the grand connaught rooms hotel.
11		nadal's head to head record against the canadian is 7–2.
12		he recently lost against raonic in the brisbane open.
13		nadal bagged 88% net points in the match winning 76 points in the first serve.
14		after the match, king of clay said, "i am just excited about being back in the final rounds of the most important events. i am here to try to win this."
15		"panama papers" is an umbrella term for roughly ten million documents from panamanian law firm mossack fonseca, leaked to the press in spring 2016.
16		the documents showed fourteen banks helped wealthy clients hide billions of us dollars of wealth to avoid taxes and other regulations.
17		british newspaper the guardian suggested deutsche bank controlled roughly a third of the 1200 shell companies used to accomplish this.
18		there were protests worldwide, several criminal prosecutions, and the leaders of the governments of iceland and pakistan both resigned.
19		born in hong kong, ma studied at new york university and harvard law school and once held an american permanent resident "green card".
20		hsieh implied during the election that ma might flee the country during a time of crisis.
21		hsieh also argued that the photogenic ma was more style than substance.
22		despite these accusations, ma won handily on a platform advocating closer ties with the chinese mainland.
23		today's player of the day is alex ovechkin of the washington capitals.
24		he had 2 goals and 2 assists in washington's 5-3 win over the atlanta thrashers.
25		ovechkin's first assist of the night was on the game-winning goal by rookie nicklas backstrom;
26		his second goal of the night was his 60th of the season, becoming the first player to score 60 or more goals in a season since 1995-96, when jaromir jagr and mario lemieux each reached that milestone.
27		batten was ranked 190th on the 2008 400 richest americans list with an estimated fortune of $2.3 billion.
28		he graduated from the college of arts & sciences of the university of virginia in 1950 and was a significant donor to that institution.
29		iraq's abu ghraib prison has been set alight during a riot.
30		the jail became notorious after prisoner abuse was discovered there after us forces took over.
31		piquet jr. crashed in the 2008 singapore grand prix just after an early pit stop for fernando alonso, bringing out the safety car.
32		as the cars ahead of alonso went in for fuel under the safety car, he moved up the pack to take victory.
33		piquet jr. was sacked after the 2009 hungarian grand prix.
34		at exactly 8:46 a.m. a hush fell across the city, marking the exact moment the first jet struck its target.
35		two beams of light have been rigged up to point skywards overnight.
36		construction is ongoing for five new skyscrapers at the site, with a transportation center and memorial park in the middle.
37		the pbs show has more than two-dozen emmy awards, and its run is shorter only than sesame street and mister rogers' neighborhood.
38		each episode of the show would focus on a theme in a specific book and then explore that theme through multiple stories.
39		each show would also provide recommendations for books that children should look for when they went to their library.
40		john grant, from wned buffalo (reading rainbow's home station) said "reading rainbow taught kids why to read,... the love of reading — [the show] encouraged kids to pick up a book and to read."
41		it is believed by some, including john grant, that both the funding crunch and a shift in the philosophy of educational television programming contributed to ending the series.
42		the storm, situated about 645 miles (1040 km) west of the cape verde islands, is likely to dissipate before threatening any land areas, forecasters say.
43		fred currently has winds of 105 miles per hour (165 km/h) and is moving towards the northwest.
44		fred is the strongest tropical cyclone ever recorded so far south and east in the atlantic since the advent of satellite imagery, and only the third major hurricane on record east of 35°w.
45		on september 24, 1759, arthur guinness signed a 9,000 year lease for the st james' gate brewery in dublin, ireland.
46		250 years later, guinness has grown to a global business that turns over 10 billion euros (us$14.7 billion) every year.
47		jonny reid, co-driver for the a1gp new zealand team, today made history by driving the fastest over the 48-year-old auckland harbour bridge, new zealand, legally.
48		mr reid managed to drive the new zealand's a1gp car, black beauty at speeds over 160km/h seven times over the bridge.
49		the new zealand police had trouble using their speed radar guns to see how fast mr reid was going because of how low black beauty is, and the only time the police managed to clock mr reid was when he slowed down to 160km/h.
50		in the last 3 months, over 80 arrestees were released from the central booking facility without being formally charged.
51		in april this year, a temporary restaining order was issued by judge glynn against the facility to enforce the release of those held more than 24 hours after their intake who did not receive a hearing by a court commissioner.
52		the commissioner sets bail, if granted, and formalizes the charges filed by the arresting officer. the charges are then entered into the state's computer system where the case is tracked.
53		the hearing also marks the date for the suspect’s right to a speedy trial.
54		peter costello, australian treasurer and the man most likely to succeed prime minister john howard as liberal party leader has thrown his support behind a nuclear power industry in australia.
55		mr costello said that when nuclear power generation becomes economically viable, australia should pursue its use.
56		"if it becomes commercial, we should have it. that is, there's no in-principle objection to nuclear energy" mr costello said.
57		according to ansa, "police were concerned by a couple of top-level hits they feared might spark a full-blown war of succession.
58		police said lo piccolo had the upper hand because he had been provenzano's right-hand man in palermo and his greater experience won him the respect of the older generation of bosses as they pursued provenzano's policy of keeping as low as possible while strengthening their power network.
59		these bosses had been reined in by provenzano when he put an end to the riina-driven war against the state that claimed the lives of mafia crusaders giovanni falcone and paolo borsellino in 1992."
60		apple ceo steve jobs unveiled the device by walking onto the stage and taking the iphone out of his jeans pocket.
61		during his 2 hour speech he stated that "today apple is going to reinvent the phone, we are going to make history today".
62		brazil is the largest roman catholic country on earth, and the roman catholic church has consistently opposed the legalization of same-sex marriage in the country.
63		the national congress of brazil has debated legalization for 10 years, and such civil marriages are currently only legal in rio grande do sul.
64		the original bill was drafted by former mayor of são paulo, marta suplicy. the proposed legislation, after being amended, is now in the hands of roberto jefferson.
65		protesters hope to collect a petition of 1.2 million signatures to present to the national congress in november.
66		after it became apparent that many families were seeking legal help to fight the evictions, a meeting was held on march 20 at the east bay community law center for the victims of the housing scam.
67		when the tenants started sharing what had occurred to them, most of the families involved suddenly realized that carolyn wilson of the oha had stolen their security deposits, and skipped out of town.
68		tenants at lockwood gardens believe that there may be another 40 families or more to face eviction, since they learned that oha police are also investigating other public housing properties in oakland that may be caught up in the housing scam.
69		the band canceled the show at maui's war memorial stadium, which was set to be attended by 9,000 people, and apologized to fans.
70		the band's management company, hk management inc., gave no initial reason when they canceled on september 20, but blamed logistical reasons by the next day.
71		the famous greek lawyers, sakis kechagioglou and george nikolakopoulos have been imprisoned in the athens' jail of korydallus, as they were found guilty of graft and corruption.
72		as a result of this, a big scandal within the greek legal community has been raised through the exposure of illegal actions that judges, lawyers, solicitors and attorneys have done during the previous years.
73		a few weeks ago, after the information published by the journalist makis triantafylopoulos in his popular television show "zoungla" in alpha tv, the member of parliament and lawyer, petros mantouvalos was abdicated as members of his office had been involved in illegal graft and corruption.
74		moreover, top judge evangelos kalousis is imprisoned as he found guilty of corruption and degenerate behaviour.
75		roberts flatly refused to say about when he believes life begins, an important question when considering the ethics of abortion, saying that it would be unethical to comment on the specifics of likely cases.
76		he did, however, reiterate his earlier statement that roe v. wade was the "settled law of the land", emphasizing the importance of consistent supreme court rulings.
77		he also confirmed that he believed in the implied right to privacy which the roe decision depended upon.
78		maroochydore had finished on top of the ladder, six points clear of noosa in second.
79		the two sides would meet in the major semi final where noosa ran out winners by 11 points.
80		maroochydore then defeated caboolture in the preliminary final.
81		hesperonychus elizabethae is a species of the family dromaeosauridae and is a cousin of velociraptor .
82		this fully feathered, warm blooded bird of prey was believed to have walked upright on two legs with claws like the velociraptor.
83		its second claw was larger, giving rise to the name hesperonychus which means "western claw."
84		in addition to the crushing ice, extreme weather conditions have been hampering rescue efforts.
85		pittman suggested that conditions wouldn't improve until sometime next week.
86		the amount and thickness of the pack ice, according to pittman, is the worst it has been for sealers in the past 15 years.
87		news spread in the red lake community today as funerals for jeff weise and three of the nine victims were held that another student was arrested in connection with the school shootings of march 21.
88		authorities said little officially beyond confirming today's arrest.
89		however, a source with knowledge of the investigation told the minneapolis star-tribune that it was louis jourdain, 16-year old son of red lake tribal chairman floyd jourdain.
90		it is not known at this time what charges will be laid or what led authorities to the boy but juvenile proceedings have begun in federal court.
91		lodin also said officials decided to cancel the runoff in order to save afghans the expense and security risk of another election.
92		diplomats said that they had found enough ambiguity in the afghan constitution to determine the runoff as unnecessary.
93		this contradicts earlier reports, which said that cancelling the runoff would have been against the constitution.
94		the aircraft had been headed to irkutsk and was being operated by interior troops.
95		an inquiry was established to investigate.
96		the il-76 has been a major component of both the russian and soviet military since the 1970s, and had already seen a serious accident in russia last month.
97		on october 7 an engine separated on takeoff, without injuries. russia briefly grounded il-76s after that accident.
98		800 miles of the trans-alaska pipeline system were closed down following a spill of thousands of barrels of crude oil south of fairbanks, alaska.
99		a power failure following a routine fire-command system test caused relief valves to open and crude oil overflowed near the fort greely pump station 9.
100		the valves opening allowed a pressure release for the system and oil flowed on a pad to a tank that can hold 55,000 barrels (2.3 million gallons).
101		as of wednesday afternoon, the tank vents were still leaking probably from thermal expansion inside the tank.
102		another secondary containment area below the tanks capable of holding 104,500 barrels was not yet filled to capacity.
103		the comments, live on television, were the first time that senior iranian sources have admitted that the sanctions are having any effect.
104		they include financial restrictions and a ban by the european union on the export of crude oil, from which the iranian economy receives 80% of its foreign income.
105		in its most recent monthly report, opec said exports of crude had fallen to their lowest level for two decades at 2.8 million barrels per day.
106		the country's supreme leader, ayatollah ali khamenei, has described the dependency on oil as "a trap" dating from before iran's islamic revolution in 1979 and from which the country should free itself.
107		when the capsule gets to earth and enters the atmosphere, at about 5am (eastern time), it is expected to put on quite a light show for folks in northern california, oregon, nevada, and utah.
108		the capsule will look much like a shooting star going across the sky.
109		the capsule will be traveling at about 12.8 km or 8 miles per second, fast enough to go from san francisco to los angeles in one minute.
110		stardust will set a new all-time record for being the fastest spacecraft to return to earth, breaking the previous record set in may of 1969 during the return of the apollo x command module.
111		“it will move over the west coast of northern california and will light the sky from california through central oregon and on through nevada and idaho and into utah,” tom duxbury, stardust's project manager said.
112		mr. rudd's decision to sign the kyoto climate accord isolates the united states, which will now be the only developed nation not to ratify the agreement.
113		australia's former conservative government refused to ratify kyoto, saying it would damage the economy with its heavy reliance on coal exports, while countries like india and china were not bound by emissions targets.
114		it is the biggest acquisition in ebay's history.
115		the company hopes to diversify its profit sources and gain popularity in areas where skype holds a strong position, such as china, eastern europe, and brazil.
116		scientists have suspected enceladus as geologically active and a possible source of saturn's icy e ring.
117		enceladus is the most reflective object in the solar system, reflecting about 90 percent of the sunlight that hits it.
118		the game publisher konami stated today in a japanese newspaper that they will not be releasing the game six days in fallujah.
119		the game is based on the second battle of fallujah, a vicious battle between american and iraqi forces.
120		the acma also found that despite the video being streamed on the internet, big brother had not breached online content censorship laws as the media had not been stored on big brother's website.
121		the broadcasting services act provides for the regulation of internet content, however to be considered internet content, it must physically reside on a server.
122		the united states embassy located in nairobi, kenya has issued a warning that "extremists from somalia" are planning to launch suicide bomb attacks in kenya and ethiopia.
123		the u.s. says it has received information from an undisclosed source that specifically mentions the use of suicide bombers to will blow up "prominent landmarks" in ethiopia and kenya.
124		long before the daily show and the colbert report, heck and johnson envisioned a publication that would parody the news—and news reporting—when they were students at uw in 1988.
125		since its inception, the onion has become a veritable news parody empire, with a print edition, a website that drew 5,000,000 unique visitors in the month of october, personal ads, a 24 hour news network, podcasts, and a recently launched world atlas called our dumb world.
126		al gore and general tommy franks casually rattle off their favorite headlines (gore's was when the onion reported he and tipper were having the best sex of their lives after his 2000 electoral college defeat).
127		many of their writers have gone on to wield great influence on jon stewart and stephen colbert's news parody shows.
128		the artistic event is also part of a campaign by the bucharest city hall that seeks to relaunch the image of the romanian capital as a creative and colourful metropolis.
129		the city will be the first in southeastern europe to host cowparade, the world's largest public art event, between june and august this year.
130		today's announcement also extended the government's commitment made in march of this year to fund extra carriages.
131		an additional 300 brings the total to 1,300 carriages to be acquired to relieve overcrowding.
132		christopher garcia, a spokesperson of the los angeles police department, said the suspected male offender is being investigated for trespassing rather than vandalism.
133		the sign was not physically damaged; the modification was done using black tarpaulins decorated with signs of peace and heart to alter the "o" to read lowercase "e".
134		red tide is caused by a higher than normal concentration of karenia brevis, a naturally-occurring single-celled marine organism.
135		natural factors can intersect to produce ideal conditions, allowing this algae to increase in number dramatically.
136		the algae produces a neurotoxin that can disable nerves in both humans and fish.
137		fish often die because of the high concentrations of the toxin in the waters.
138		humans can be affected by breathing affected water taken into the air by wind and waves.
139		at its peak, tropical cyclone gonu, named for a bag of palm leaves in the language of the maldives, reached sustained winds of 240 kilometers an hour (149 miles per hour) .
140		by early today, winds were around 83 km/h, and it was expect to keep weakening.
141		on wednesday, the united states' national basketball association (nba) suspended its professional basketball season due to concerns regarding covid-19.
142		the nba's decision followed a utah jazz player testing positive for the covid-19 virus.
143		"based on this fossil, that means the split is much earlier than has been anticipated by the molecular evidence.
144		that means everything has to be put back," said researcher at the rift valley research service in ethiopia and a co-author of the study, berhane asfaw.
145		until now, aol has been able to move and develop the im market at its own pace, due to its widespread use within the united states.
146		with this arrangement in place, this freedom might end.
147		the number of users of the yahoo! and microsoft services combined will rival the number of aol's customers.
148		the northern rock bank had been nationalised in 2008 following the revelation that the company had received emergency support from the uk government.
149		northern rock had required support due to its exposure during the subprime mortgage crisis in 2007.
150		sir richard branson's virgin group had a bid for the bank rejected prior to the bank’s nationalisation.
151		in 2010, while nationalised, the current high street bank northern rock plc was split from the ‘bad bank’, northern rock (asset management).
152		virgin have only purchased the ‘good bank’ of northern rock, not the asset management company.
153		this is believed to be the fifth time in history that people have observed what turned out to be chemically confirmed martian material falling to earth.
154		out of the approximately 24,000 known meteorites to have fallen to earth, only about 34 have been verified to be martian in origin.
155		fifteen of these rocks are attributed to the meteorite shower last july.
156		some of the rocks, which are very rare on earth, are being sold from us$11,000 to $22,500 per ounce, which is about ten times more than the cost of gold.
157		following the race, keselowski remains the drivers' championship leader with 2,250 points.
158		seven points behind, johnson is second with 2,243.
159		in third, hamlin is twenty points behind, but five ahead of bowyer. kahne and truex, jr. are fifth and sixth respectively with 2,220 and 2,207 points.
160		stewart, gordon, kenseth, and harvick round out the top-ten positions for the drivers' championship with four races remaining in the season.
161		the us navy also said they were investigating the incident.
162		they also said in a statement, "the crew is currently working to determine the best method of safely extracting the ship".
163		an avenger class mine countermeasures ship, the ship was on its way to puerto princesa in palawan.
164		it is assigned to the u.s. navy’s seventh fleet and based in sasebo, nagasaki in japan.
165		the mumbai attackers arrived via boat on novemeber 26, 2008, bringing with them grenades, automatic weapons and hit multiple targets including the crowded chhatrapati shivaji terminus railway station and the famous taj mahal hotel.
166		david headley's scouting and information gathering had helped to enable the operation by the 10 gunmen from the pakistani militant group laskhar-e-taiba.
167		the attack put a huge strain on relations between india and pakistan.
168		accompanied by those officials, he assured texas citizens that steps were being taken to protect the public's safety.
169		perry specifically said, "there are few places in the world better equipped to meet the challenge that is posed in this case."
170		the governor also stated, "today, we learned that some school aged children have been identified as having had contact with the patient."
171		he went on to say, "this case is serious. rest assured that our system is working as well as it should."
172		if confirmed, the find completes allen's eight-year search for the musashi.
173		following seabed mapping the wreck was found using an rov.
174		one of the world's richest people, allen has reportedly invested much of his wealth in marine exploration and began his quest to find the musashi out of a lifelong interest in the war.
175		she gained critical acclaim during her time in atlanta and was recognized for innovative urban education.
176		in 2009 she was awarded the title of national superintendent of the year.
177		at the time of the award, atlanta schools had seen a large improvement on test scores.
178		shortly after, the atlanta journal-constitution published a report showing problems with test results.
179		the report showed test scores had increased implausibly fast, and alleged the school internally detected problems but didn't act on the findings.
180		evidence thereafter indicated test papers were tampered with hall, along with 34 other education officials, was indicted in 2013.
181		the irish government is stressing the urgency of parliamentary legislation to rectify the situation.
182		"it is now important from both a public health and criminal justice perspective that the legislation be enacted as soon as possible", said a government spokesperson.
183		the health minister expressed concern both for the welfare of individuals taking advantage of the temporary legality of the substances involved, and for drug-related convictions handed down since the now-unconstitutional changes came into effect.
184		jarque was practicing during pre-season training at coverciano in italy earlier in the day. he was staying in the team hotel ahead of a match planned for sunday against bolonia.
185		he was staying in the team hotel ahead of a match planned for sunday against bolonia.
186		the bus was headed to six flags st. louis in missouri for the band to play to a sold-out crowd.
187		at 1:15 a.m. saturday, according to witnesses, the bus was going through a green light when the car made a turn in front of it.
188		as of the night of august 9, the eye of morakot was about seventy kilometres away from the chinese province of fujian.
189		the typhoon is estimated to be moving toward china at eleven kph.
190		passengers were given water as they waited in 90(f)-degree heat.
191		fire captain scott kouns said, "it was a hot day in the santa clara with temperatures in the 90s.
192		any length of time trapped on a roller coaster would be uncomfortable, to say the least, and it took at least an hour to get the first person off the ride."
193		schumacher who retired in 2006 after winning the formula 1 championship seven times, was due to replace the injured felipe massa.
194		the brazilian suffered a serious head injury after a crash during the 2009 hungarian grand prix.
195		massa is due to be out for at least the rest of the 2009 season.
196		arias tested positive for a mild case of the virus, presidential minister rodrigo arias said.
197		the president's condition is stable, though he will be isolated at home for several days.
198		"apart from the fever and a sore throat, i feel well and in good shape to carry out my work by telecommuting.
199		i expect to return to all my duties on monday," arias said in a statement.
200		felicia, once a category 4 storm on the saffir-simpson hurricane scale, weakened to a tropical depression before dissipating tuesday.
201		its remnants produced showers across most of the islands, though as of yet, no damage or flooding has been reported.
202		the precipitation, reaching 6.34 inches at a gauge on oahu, was described as "beneficial".
203		some of the rainfall was accompanied by thunderstorms and frequent lightning.
204		the twin otter had been trying to land at kokoda yesterday as airlines png flight cg4684, but had aborted once already.
205		about ten minutes before it was due to land from its second approach it disapeared.
206		the crash site was located today and is so inaccessable that two policemen were dropped into the jungle in order to hike to the scene and seek survivors.
207		the search had been hampered by the same bad weather that had caused the aborted landing.
208		according to reports, an apartment on macbeth street exploded due to a gas leak.
209		an official with the gas company was reporting to the scene after a neighbor called about a gas leak.
210		when the official arrived, the apartment exploded.
211		no major injuries were reported, but at least five people on scene at the time of the explosion were treated for symptoms of shock.
212		no one was inside the apartment.
213		at the time, nearly 100 residents were evacuated from the area.
214		both golf and rugby are set to return to the olympic games.
215		the international olympic committee voted to include the sports at its executive board meeting in berlin today. rugby, specifically rugby union, and golf were selected over five other sports to be considered to participate in the olympics.
216		squash, karate and roller sports tried to get onto the olympic program as well as baseball and softball, which were voted out of the olympic games in 2005.
217		the vote must still be ratified by the full ioc at it's october meeting in copenhagen.
218		not all were supportive of the inclusion of the women’s ranks.
219		2004 olympic silver medallist amir khan said, "deep down i think women shouldn’t fight. that’s my opinion."
220		despite his comments he said he will be supporting the british competitors at the 2012 olympics being held in london.
221		the trial took place at birmingham crown court and concluded on august 3.
222		the presenter, who was arrested at the scene, denied the attack and claimed he used the pole to protect himself from bottles being thrown at him by up to thirty people.
223		blake was also convicted of attempting to pervert the course of justice.
224		the judge told blake it was "almost inevitable" he was going to be sent to jail.
225		dark energy is a completely invisible force that is constantly acting upon the universe.
226		its existence is known only because of its effects on the expansion of the universe.
227		scientists have discovered landforms littered across the moon's surface called lobate scarps that have apparently resulted from the moon's shrinking very slowly.
228		these scarps were found all over the moon and appear to be minimally weathered, indicating that the geologic events that created them were fairly recent.
229		this theory contradicts the claim that the moon is completely devoid of geologic activity.
230		the man allegedly drove a three-wheeled vehicle armed with explosives into a crowd.
231		the man suspected of detonating the bomb was detained, after sustaining injuries from the blast.
232		his name is still unknown to authorities, although they do know he is a member of the uighur ethnic group.
233		nadia, born on september 17, 2007, by cesarean section at a maternity clinic in aleisk, russia, weighed in at a massive 17 pounds 1 ounce.
234		"we were all simply in shock," the mother stated.
235		when asked what the father said, she answered "he couldn't say a thing - he just stood there blinking."
236		"it's going to behave like water. it's transparent just the way water is.
237		so if you were standing by the shoreline, you would be able to see down to whatever pebbles or gunk that was on the bottom.
238		as far as we know, there is only one planetary body that displays more dynamism than titan, and its name is earth," added stofan.
239		the issue started on january 1st when dozens of local residents started complaining to the obanazawa post office that they hadn't received their traditional and regular new year cards.
240		yesterday, the post office released their apology to citizens and the media after discovering that the boy had hidden more than 600 postal documents, including 429 new year postcards, which weren't delivered to their intended recipients.
241		the unmanned lunar orbiter chandrayaan-1 ejected its moon impact probe (mip), which hurtled across the surface of the moon at 1.5 kilometres per second (3000 miles per hour), and successfully crash landed near the moon's south pole.
242		besides carrying three important scientific instruments, the lunar probe also carried the image of the indian national flag, painted on all sides.
243		"thanks for those who supported a convict like me," siriporn was quoted as saying at a press conference.
244		"some may not agree but i don't care.
245		i am happy that there are people willing to support me.
246		since pakistani independence from british rule in 1947, the pakistani president has appointed "political agents" to govern fata, who exercise near-complete autonomous control over the areas.
247		these agents are responsible for providing government and judicial services under article 247 of the pakistani constitution.
248		a hostel collapsed in mecca, the holy city of islam at about 10 o'clock this morning local time.
249		the building housed a number of pilgrims who came to visit the holy city at the eve of hajj pilgrimage.
250		the hostel's guests were mostly citizens of the united arab emirates.
251		the death toll is at least 15, a figure which is expected to rise.
252		leonov, also known as "cosmonaut no. 11", was part of the soviet union's original team of cosmonauts.
253		on march 18, 1965, he performed the first manned extravehicular activity (eva), or "spacewalk", remaining alone outside the spacecraft for just over twelve minutes.
254		he received the "hero of the soviet union", the soviet union's highest honor, for his work.
255		ten years later, he led the soviet part of the apollo–soyuz mission symbolizing that the space race was over.
256		she said, "there is no intelligence to suggest that an attack is expected imminently.
257		however, the reduction of the threat level to severe does not mean the overall threat has gone away."
258		while authorities are unsure of the credibility of the threat, the maryland transportaion authority made the closure with the urging of the fbi.
259		dump trucks were used to block tube entrances and assistance of 80 police were on hand to direct motorists to detours.
260		there were no heavy traffic delays reported on the beltway, the city's alternate route.
261		nigeria previously announced it planned to join the afcfta in the week leading up to the summit.
262		au trade and industry commissioner albert muchanga announced benin was to join.
263		the commissioner said, "we haven't yet agreed on rules of origin and tariff con[c]essions, but the framework we have is enough to start trading on july 1, 2020".
264		the station maintained its attitude, despite the loss of a gyroscope earlier in the space station mission, until the end of the spacewalk.
265		chiao and sharipov reported being a safe distance from the attitude adjustment thrusters.
266		russian ground control activated the jets and normal attitude of the station was regained.
267		the case was prosecuted in virginia because it is the home to the leading internet service provider aol, the company who instigated the charges.
268		this is the first time a conviction has been gained using the legislation enacted in 2003 to curb bulk e-mail, aka spam, from unsolicited distribution into users mailboxes.
269		21-year-old jesus joined manchester city last year in january 2017 from brazilian club palmeiras for a reported fee of £27 million.
270		since then, the brazilian has featured in 53 matches for the club in all competitions and has scored 24 goals.
271		dr. lee also expressed his concern about reports that children in turkey have now become infected with the a(h5n1) avian influenza virus without becoming ill.
272		some studies suggest that the disease must become less lethal before it can cause a global epidemic, he noted.
273		there is concern that patients may continue to infect more people by going through their daily routines if the flu symptoms remain mild.
274		leslie aun, a spokesperson for the komen foundation, said the organization adopted a new rule that does not allow grants or funding to be awarded to organizations that are under legal investigation.
275		komen's policy disqualified planned parenthood due to a pending investigation on how planned parenthood spends and reports its money that is being conducted by representative cliff stearns.
276		stearns is investigating whether taxes are used to fund abortions through planned parenthood in his role as chairman of the oversight and investigations subcommittee, which is under the umbrella of the house energy and commerce committee.
277		former massachusetts governor mitt romney won the florida republican party presidential primary election on tuesday with over 46 percent of the vote.
278		former u.s. speaker of the house newt gingrich came in second with 32 percent.
279		as a winner-takes-all state, florida awarded all fifty of its delegates to romney, pushing him ahead as the front-runner for the republican party nomination.
280		organisers of the protest said about 100,000 people turned up in german cities such as berlin, cologne, hamburg, and hanover.
281		in berlin, police estimated 6,500 protestors.
282		protests also took place in paris, sofia in bulgaria, vilnius in lithuania, valetta in malta, tallinn in estonia, and edinburgh and glasgow in scotland.
283		in london, about 200 people protested outside some major copyright holders' offices.
284		last month, there were major protests in poland when that country signed acta, which has led to the polish government deciding not to ratify the agreement, for now.
285		latvia and slovakia have both delayed the process of joining acta.
286		animal liberation and the royal society for the prevention of cruelty to animals (rspca) are again calling for the mandatory installation of cctv cameras in all australian abattoirs.
287		rspca new south wales chief inspector david o'shannessy told the abc that surveillance and inspections of abattoirs should be commonplace in australia.
288		"the cctv would certainly send a strong signal to those people working with animals that their welfare is of the highest priority."
289		the united states geological survey international earthquake map showed no earthquakes in iceland in the week prior.
290		the icelandic meteorological office also reported no earthquake activity in the hekla area in the past 48 hours.
291		the significant earthquake activity resulting in the phase change had took place on march 10 on the northeast side of the volcano's summit caldera.
292		dark clouds unrelated to any volcanic activity were reported at the base of the mountain.
293		the clouds presented the potential for confusion as to whether an actual eruption had taken place.
294		the luno had 120–160 cubic metres of fuel aboard when it broke down and high winds and waves pushed it into the breakwater.
295		helicopters rescued the twelve crewmembers and the only injury was a broken nose.
296		the 100-metre ship was en route to pick up its usual fertiliser cargo and initially officials feared the vessel could spill a load.
297		the proposed amendment already passed both houses in 2011.
298		a change was made this legislative session when the second sentence was deleted first by the house of representatives and then was passed in a similar form by the senate monday.
299		the failure of the second sentence, which proposes to ban same-sex civil unions, could possibly open the door for civil unions in the future.
300		following the process, hjr-3 will be reviewed again by the next elected legislature in either 2015 or 2016 to remain in process.
301		vautier's achievements outside of directing include a hunger strike in 1973 against what he viewed as political censorship.
302		french law was changed. his activism went back to age 15 when he joined the french resistance during world war ii.
303		he documented himself in a 1998 book.
304		in the 1960s he headed back to newly-independent algeria to teach film directing.
305		japanese judoka hitoshi saito, winner of two olympic gold medals, has died at the age of 54.
306		the cause of death was announced as intrahepatic bile duct cancer.
307		he died in osaka on tuesday.
308		as well as a former olympic and world champion, saito was the all japan judo federation training committee chairman at the time of his death.
309		at least 100 people had attended the party, in order to celebrate the first anniversary of a couple whose wedding was held last year.
310		a formal anniversary event was scheduled for a later date, officials said.
311		the couple had married in texas one year ago and came to buffalo to celebrate with friends and relatives.
312		the 30-year-old husband, who was born in buffalo, was one of the four killed in the shooting, but his wife was not hurt.
313		karno is a well-known but controversial english tutor who taught under modern education and king's glory who claimed to have 9,000 students at the peak of his career.
314		in his notes he used words which some parents considered coarse, and he reportedly used profanity in class.
315		modern education accused him of printing large advertisements on buses without authorisation and lying by saying that he was the chief english tutor.
316		he has also been accused previously of copyright infringement, but was not charged.
317		a former student said that he 'used slang in class, taught dating skills in notes, and was just like the students' friend.'
318		during the last three decades, despite officially remaining a communist state, china has developed a market economy.
319		the first economic reforms were made under the leadership of deng xiaoping.
320		since then, china's economic size has grown by 90 times.
321		for the first time, last year china exported more cars than germany and surpassed the united states as the biggest market for this industry.
322		china's gdp could be larger than the united states within two decades.
323		tropical storm danielle, fourth named storm of the 2010 atlantic hurricane season, has formed in the eastern atlantic ocean.
324		the storm, located approximately 3,000 miles from miami, florida, has maximum sustained winds of 40 mph (64 kph).
325		scientists at the national hurricane center predict that danielle will strengthen to a hurricane by wednesday.
326		as the storm is far from landfall, it remains difficult to assess potential impact to the united states or caribbean.
327		born in the croatian capital, zagreb, bobek gained fame while playing for partizan belgrade.
328		he joined them in 1945 and stayed until 1958.
329		during his time with the team, he scored 403 goals in 468 appearances.
330		no one else has ever made more appearances or scored more goals for the club than bobek.
331		in 1995 he was voted the best player in partizan's history.
332		the celebrations started with a special show by the world-renowned group cirque du soleil.
333		it was followed by the istanbul state symphony orchestra, a janissary band, and the singers fatih erkoç and müslüm gürses.
334		then whirling dervishes took to the stage.
335		turkish diva sezen aksu performed with the italian tenor alessandro safina and greek singer haris alexiou.
336		to finish, turkish dance group fire of anatolia performed the show "troy".
337		peter lenz, a 13-year-old motorcycle racer, has died after being involved in a crash at the indianapolis motor speedway.
338		while on his warm-up lap, lenz fell off his bike, and was then struck by fellow racer xavier zayat.
339		he was immediately attended to by the on-track medical staff and transported to a local hospital where he later died.
340		zayat was unhurt in the accident.
341		regarding the global financial situation, zapatero continued by saying that "the financial system is a part of the economy, a crucial part.
342		we have a year-long financial crisis, which has had its most acute moment in the past two months, and i think now the financial markets are beginning to recover."
343		last week, naked news announced that it would dramatically increase its international language mandate to news reporting, with three new broadcasts.
344		already reporting in english and japanese, the global organization is launching spanish, italian, and korean-language programs, for television, the web, and mobile devices.
345		"luckily nothing happened to me, but i saw a macabre scene, as people tried to break windows in order to get out.
346		people were hitting the panes with chairs, but the windows were unbreakable.
347		one of the panes finally broke, and they started to get out by the window," said survivor franciszek kowal.
348		stars give off light and heat because of the energy made when hydrogen atoms are merged (or fused) together to form heavier elements.
349		scientists are working to create a reactor that can make energy in the same way.
350		this, however, is a very hard problem to solve and will take many years before we see useful fusion reactors built.
351		the steel needle floats on top of the water because of surface tension.
352		surface tension happens because the water molecules at the surface of the water are strongly attracted to each other more than they are to the air molecules above them.
353		the water molecules make an invisible skin on the water’s surface that allows things like the needle to float on top of the water.
354		the blade on a modern ice skate has a double edge with a concave hollow between them. the two edges allow for a better grasp of the ice, even when tilted.
355		because the bottom of the blade is slightly curved, as the blade tilts to one side or the other, the edge which is in contact with the ice also curves.
356		this causes the skater to turn. if the skates tilt to the right, the skater turns right, if the skates tilt to the left, the skater turns left.
357		to return to their previous energy level, they must get rid of the extra energy they got from the light.
358		they do this by emitting a tiny particle of light called a "photon".
359		scientists call this process "stimulated emission of radiation" because the atoms are stimulated by the bright light, causing the emission of a photon of light, and light is a type of radiation.
360		the next picture shows the atoms emitting photons. of course, in reality photons are a lot smaller than those in the picture.
361		photons are even smaller than the stuff that makes up atoms!
362		after hundreds of hours of operation the filament in the bulb eventually burns out and the light bulb no longer works.
363		the light bulb then needs replacing. it is necessary to be careful in replacing the light bulb.
364		first, the switch for the light fixture needs to be turned off or the cable disconnected.
365		this is because electricity flowing into the socket where the metallic part of bulb sits can give you a severe electric shock if you touch the inside of the socket or the metal base of the bulb while it is still partly in the socket.
366		the major organ of the circulatory system is the heart, which pumps the blood.
367		blood goes away from the heart in tubes called arteries and comes back to the heart in tubes called veins. the smallest tubes are called capillaries.
368		a triceratops' teeth would have been able to crush not only leaves but even very tough branches and roots.
369		some scientists think triceratops ate cycads, which are a type of plant that was common in the cretaceous.
370		these plants look like a small palm tree with a crown of sharp, spiky leaves.
371		a triceratops could have used its strong beak to strip off the leaves before eating the trunk.
372		other scientists argue that these plants are very poisonous so it is unlikely that any dinosaur ate them, even though today the sloth and other animals like the parrot (a descendant of the dinosaurs) can eat poisonous leaves or fruit.
373		how would io's gravity pull on me? if you stood on the surface of io, you would weigh less than you do on earth.
374		a person who weighs 200 pounds (90kg) on earth would weigh about 36 pounds (16kg) on io. so the gravity, of course, pulls less on you.
375		the sun doesn't have a crust like the earth that you can stand on. the whole sun is made out of gases, fire, and plasma.
376		the gas becomes thinner as you go farther from the center of the sun.
377		the outer-part we see when we look at the sun is called the photosphere, which means "ball of light".
378		about three thousand years later, in 1610, italian astronomer galileo galilei used a telescope to observe that venus has phases, just as the moon does.
379		phases happen because only the side of venus (or of the moon) facing the sun is lighted. the phases of venus supported the theory of copernicus that the planets go around the sun.
380		then, a few years later in 1639, an english astronomer named jeremiah horrocks observed a transit of venus.
381		england had experienced a long period of peace after the reconquest of the danelaw.
382		however in 991 ethelred was faced with a viking fleet larger than any since guthrum's a century earlier.
383		this fleet was led by olaf trygvasson, a norwegian with ambitions to reclaim his country from danish domination.
384		after initial military setbacks, ethelred was able to agree to terms with olaf, who returned to norway to try to gain his kingdom with mixed success.
385		hangeul is the only purposely invented alphabet in popular daily use. the alphabet was invented in 1444 during the reign of king sejong (1418 – 1450).
386		king sejong was the fourth king of the joseon dynasty and is one of the most highly regarded.
387		he originally named the hangeul alphabet hunmin jeongeum, which means "the correct sounds for the instruction of the people".
388		there are many theories to how sanskrit came into existence. one of them is about an aryan migration from the west into india who brought their language with them.
389		sanskrit is an ancient language and is comparable to the latin language spoken in europe.
390		the earliest known book in the world was written in sanskrit. after the compilation of upanishads, sanskrit just faded due to hierarchy.
391		sanskrit is a very complex and rich language, which has served to be the source for many modern indian languages, just like latin is the source for european languages like french and spanish.
392		with the battle for france over, germany began to get ready to invade the island of britain.
393		germany code-named the attack “operation sealion”. most of the british army's heavy weapons and supplies had been lost when it evacuated from dunkirk, so the army was fairly weak.
394		but the royal navy was still much stronger than the german navy (“kriegsmarine”) and could have destroyed any invasion fleet sent across the english channel.
395		however, very few royal navy ships were based near the likely invasion routes as the admirals were afraid they would be sunk by german air attack.
396		let's start with an explanation about italy's plans. italy was mainly the "little brother" of germany and japan.
397		it had a weaker army and a weaker navy, although they had just built four new ships right before the beginning of the war.
398		italy's main goals were african countries. to capture those countries, they would need to have a troop launching pad, so as troops could sail across the mediterranean sea and invade africa.
399		for that, they had to get rid of british bases and ships in egypt. besides those actions, italy's battleships were not supposed to do anything else.
400		now for japan. japan was an island country, just like britain.
401		submarines are ships designed to travel underwater, and remain there for an extended amount of time.
402		submarines were used in world war i and world war ii. back then they were very slow and had a very limited shooting range.
403		in the beginning of the war they mostly travelled on top of the sea, but as radar began developing and becoming more accurate the submarines were forced to go under water to avoid being seen.
404		german submarines were called u-boats. the germans were very good at navigating and operating their submarines.
405		because of their success with submarines, after the war germans aren't trusted to have many of them.
406		yes! king tutankhamun, sometimes referred to as "king tut" or "the boy king", is one of the most well known ancient egyptian kings in modern times.
407		interestingly, he was not considered to be very important in ancient times and was not recorded on most ancient king lists.
408		however, the discovery of his tomb in 1922 made him a celebrity. while many tombs of the past were robbed, this tomb was left virtually undisturbed.
409		most of the items buried with tutankhamun have been well preserved, including thousands of artefacts made from precious metals and rare stones.
410		the invention of spoke wheels made assyrian chariots lighter, faster, and better prepared to outrun soldiers and other chariots.
411		arrows from their deadly crossbows could penetrate the armor of rival soldiers. about 1000 b.c., the assyrians introduced the first cavalry.
412		a cavalry is an army that fights on horseback. the saddle had not yet been invented, so the assyrian cavalry fought on the bare backs of their horses.
413		we know many greek politicians, scientists, and artists. possibly the most known person of this culture is homer, the legendary blind poet, who composed two masterpieces of greek literature: the poems iliad and odyssey.
414		sophocles and aristophanes are still popular playwrights and their plays are considered to be among the greatest works of world literature.
415		another famous greek is a mathematician pythagoras, mostly known for his famous theorem about relations of the sides of right triangles.
416		there are varying estimates for how many people speak hindi. it is estimated to be between the second and fourth most commonly spoken language in the world.
417		the number of native speakers varies depending on whether or not very closely related dialects are counted.
418		estimates range from 340 million to 500 million speakers, and as many as 800 million people can understand the language.
419		hindi and urdu are similar in vocabulary but different in script; in everyday conversations, speakers of both languages can usually understand each other.
420		around the 15th century, northern estonia was under great cultural influence of germany.
421		some german monks wanted to bring god closer to the native people, so they invented the estonian literal language.
422		it was based on the german alphabet and one character "õ/õ" was added.
423		as time passed, many words that were borrowed from german coalesced. this was the beginning of enlightenment.
424		traditionally, the heir to the throne would go straight into the military after finishing school.
425		however, charles went to university at trinity college, cambridge where he studied anthropology and archaeology, and later history, earning a 2:2 (a lower second class degree).
426		charles was the first member of the british royal family to be awarded a degree.
427		european turkey (eastern thrace or rumelia in the balkan peninsula) includes 3% of the country.
428		the territory of turkey is more than 1,600 kilometres (1,000 mi) long and 800 km (500 mi) wide, with a roughly rectangular shape.
429		turkey's area, including lakes, occupies 783,562 square kilometres (300,948 sq mi), of which 755,688 square kilometres (291,773 sq mi) are in south west asia and 23,764 square kilometres (9,174 sq mi) in europe.
430		turkey's area makes it the world's 37th-largest country, and is about the size of metropolitan france and the united kingdom combined.
431		turkey is encircled by seas on three sides: the aegean sea to the west, the black sea to the north and the mediterranean sea to the south.
432		luxembourg has a long history but its independence dates from 1839.
433		present-day parts of belgium were part of luxembourg in the past but became belgian after the 1830s belgian revolution.
434		luxembourg has always tried to remain a neutral country but it was occupied in both world war i and world war ii by germany.
435		in 1957 luxembourg became a founding member of the organization which is today known as the european union.
436		the drukgyal dzong is a ruined fortress and buddhist monastery in the upper part of the paro district (in phondey village).
437		it is said that in 1649, zhabdrung ngawang namgyel created the fortress to commemorate his victory against the tibetan-mongol forces.
438		in 1951, a fire caused for only some of the relics of the drukgyal dzong to remain, such as the image of zhabdrung ngawang namgyal.
439		after the fire, the fortress was preserved and protected, remaining to be one of bhutan's most sensational attractions.
440		during the 18th century cambodia found itself squeezed between two powerful neighbors, thailand and vietnam.
441		the thais invaded cambodia several times in the 18th century and in 1772 they destroyed phnom phen.
442		in the last years of the 18th century the vietnamese also invaded cambodia.
443		eighteen percent of venezuelans are unemployed, and most of those who are employed work in the informal economy.
444		two thirds of venezuelans who work do so in the service sector, nearly a quarter work in industry and a fifth work in agriculture.
445		an important industry for venezuelans is oil, where the country is a net exporter, even though only one percent work in the oil industry.
446		early in the nation's independence, singapore botanic gardens' expertise helped to transform the island into a tropical garden city.
447		in 1981, vanda miss joaquim, an orchid hybrid, was chosen as the nation's national flower.
448		every year around october nearly 1.5 million herbivores travel towards the southern plains, crossing the mara river, from the northern hills for the rains.
449		and then back to the north through the west, once again crossing the mara river, after the rains in around april.
450		the serengeti region contains the serengeti national park, the ngorongoro conservation area and maswa game reserve in tanzania and the maasai mara national reserve in kenya.
451		learning to create interactive media requires conventional and traditional skills, as well as tools mastered in interactive classes (storyboarding, audio and video editing, story telling, etc.)
452		interactive design requires that you re-assess your assumptions about media production and learn to think in a non-linear ways.
453		interactive design requires that components of a project connect to each other, but also make sense as a separate entity.
454		the disadvantage of zoom lenses is that the focal complexity and number of lens elements required to achieve a range of focal lengths is much greater than for prime lenses.
455		this is becoming less of an issue as lens manufacturers achieve higher standards in lens production.
456		this has allowed zoom lenses to produce pictures of a quality comparable to that achieved by lenses with fixed focal length.
457		another disadvantage of zoom lenses is that the maximum aperture (the speed) of the lens is usually lower.
458		this makes inexpensive zoom lenses hard to use in low-light conditions without a flash.
459		one of the most common problems when trying to convert a movie to dvd format is the overscan.
460		most televisions are made in a way to please the general public.
461		for that reason, everything you see on the tv had the borders cut, top, bottom and sides.
462		this is made to ensure that the image covers the whole screen. that is called overscan.
463		unfortunately, when you make a dvd, it's borders will most likely be cut too, and if the video had subtitles too close to the bottom, they won't be fully shown.
464		the traditional medieval castle has long inspired the imagination, conjuring up images of jousts, banquets and arthurian chivalry.
465		even standing amidst thousand year-old ruins it is easy to bring to mind the sounds and smells of battles long gone, to almost hear the clatter of hooves on the cobbles and to smell the fear rising from the dungeon pits.
466		but is our imagination based on reality? why were castles built in the first place? how were they designed and built?
467		typical for the period, kirby muxloe castle is more of a fortified house than a true castle.
468		its large glazed windows and thin walls would not have been able to resist a determined attack for long.
469		in the 1480s, when its construction was begun by lord hastings, the country was relatively peaceful and defense was only required against small bands of roving marauders.
470		the balance of power was a system in which european nations sought to maintain the national sovereignty of all european states.
471		the concept was that all european nations had to seek to prevent one nation from becoming powerful, and thus national governments often changed their alliances in order to maintain the balance.
472		the war of spanish succession marked the first war whose central issue was the balance of power.
473		this marked an important change, as european powers would no longer have the pretext of being religious wars. thus, the thirty years' war would be the last war to be labeled a religious war.
474		the temple of artemis at ephesus was destroyed on july 21, 356 bce in an act of arson committed by herostratus.
475		according to the story, his motivation was fame at any cost. the ephesians, outraged, announced that herostratus' name never be recorded.
476		the greek historian strabo later noted the name, which is how we know today. the temple was destroyed on the same night that alexander the great was born.
477		alexander, as king, offered to pay to rebuild the temple, but his offer was denied. later, after alexander died, the temple was rebuilt in 323 bce.
478		make sure your hand is as relaxed as possible while still hitting all the notes correctly - also try not to make much extraneous motion with your fingers.
479		this way, you will tire yourself out as little as possible. remember there's no need to hit the keys with a lot of force for extra volume like on the piano.
480		on the accordion, to get extra volume, you use the bellows with more pressure or speed.
481		mysticism is the pursuit of communion with, identity with, or conscious awareness of an ultimate reality, divinity, spiritual truth, or god.
482		the believer seeks a direct experience, intuition, or insight into divine reality/the deity or dieties.
483		followers pursue certain ways of living, or practices that are intended to nurture those experiences.
484		mysticism can be distinguished from other forms of religious belief and worship by its emphasis on the direct personal experience of a unique state of consciousness, particularly those of a peaceful, insightful, blissful, or even ecstatic character.
485		sikhism is a religion from the indian sub-continent. it originated in the punjab region during the 15th century from a sectarian split within the hindu tradition.
486		sikhs consider their faith to be a separate religion from hinduism though they acknowledge its hindu roots and traditions.
487		sikhs call their religion gurmat, which is punjabi for "way of the guru". the guru is a fundamental aspect of all indian religions but in sikhism has taken on an importance that forms the core of sikh beliefs.
488		the religion was founded in the 15th century by guru nanak (1469–1539). there followed in succession a further nine gurus.
489		however, in june 1956, krushchev's promises were put to the test when riots in poland, where workers were protesting against food shortages and wage cuts, turned into a general protest against communism.
490		although in the end, krushchev sent in tanks to restore order, he did give way to some economic demands and agreed to appoint the popular wladyslaw gomulka as the new prime minister.
491		the indus valley civilization was a bronze age civilisation in the northwest indian subcontinent encompassing most of modern-day pakistan and some regions in northwest india and northeast afghanistan.
492		the civilisation flourished in the basins of the indus river wherefore it derives its name.
493		although some scholars speculate that since the civilisation also existed in the basins of the now dried up sarasvati river, it should be aptly called the indus-sarasvati civilization, while some call it the harappan civilization after harappa, the first of its sites to be excavated in the 1920s.
494		the militaristic nature of the roman empire aided in the development of medical advances.
495		doctors began to be recruited by emperor augustus and even formed the first roman medical corps for use in the aftermath of battles.
496		surgeons had knowledge of various sedatives including morphine from extracts of poppy seeds and scopolamine from herbane seeds.
497		they became proficient at amputation to save patients from gangrene as well as tourniquets and arterial clamps to stem blood flow.
498		over multiple centuries, the roman empire led to great gains in the field of medicine and formed much of the knowledge we know today.
499		pureland origami is origami with the restriction that only one fold may be done at a time, more complex folds like reverse folds are not allowed, and all folds have straightforward locations.
500		it was developed by john smith in the 1970s to help inexperienced folders or those with limited motor skills.
501		children develop an awareness of race and racial stereotypes quite young and these racial stereotypes affect behavior.
502		for instance, children who identify with a racial minority that is stereotyped as not doing well in school tend to not do well in school once they learn about the stereotype associated with their race.
503		myspace is the third most popular website used in the united states and has 54 million profiles currently.
504		these websites have gotten a lot of attention, especially in the education setting.
505		there are positive aspects to these websites, which include, being able to easily setup a class page which can include blogs, videos, photos, and other features.
506		this page can easily be accessed by providing just one web address, which makes it easy to remember and easy to type in for students who may have trouble using the keyboard or with spelling.
507		it can be customized to make it easy to read and also with as much or little color as desired.
508		attention deficit disorder "is a neurological syndrome whose classic defining triad of symptoms including impulsivity, distractibility, and hyperactivity or excess energy".
509		it is not a learning disability, it is a learning disorder; it "affects 3 to 5 percent of all children, perhaps as many as 2 million american children".
510		children with add have a hard time focusing on things like school work, but they can concentrate on things they enjoy doing like playing games or watching their favorite cartoons or writing sentences without punctuation.
511		these children tend to get into a lot of trouble, because they "engage in risky behaviors, get into fights, and challenge authority" in order to stimulate their brain, since their brain can not be stimulated by normal methods.
512		add affects relationships with other peers because other children can not understand why they act the way that they do or why they spell they way they do or that their maturity level is different.
513		as the ability to obtain knowledge and to learn changed in such a way as mentioned above the base rate at which knowledge was obtained changed.
514		the approach to obtaining information was different. no longer did pressure reside within individual recall, but the ability to recall text became more of a focus.
515		in essence, the renaissance made a significant change in the approach to learning and the dissemination of knowledge.
516		unlike other primates, hominids no longer use their hands in locomotion or bearing weight or swinging through the trees.
517		the chimpanzee's hand and foot are similar in size and length, reflecting the hand's use for bearing weight in knuckle walking.
518		the human hand is shorter than the foot, with straighter phalanges.
519		fossil hand bones two million to three million years old reveal this shift in specialization of the hand from locomotion to manipulation.
520		some people believe that experiencing many artificially induced lucid dreams often enough can be very exhausting.
521		the main reason for this phenomenon is the result of the lucid dreams expanding the length of time between rem states.
522		with fewer rems per night, this state in which you experience actual sleep and your body recovers becomes infrequent enough to become a problem.
523		this is just as exhausting as if you were to wake up every twenty or thirty minutes and watch tv.
524		the effect is dependent on how often your brain attempts to lucidly dream per night.
525		things did not go well for the italians in north africa almost from the start. within a week of italy's declaration of war on june 10, 1940, the british 11th hussars had seized fort capuzzo in libya.
526		in an ambush east of bardia, the british captured the italian tenth army's engineer-in-chief, general lastucci.
527		on june 28, marshal italo balbo, the governor-general of libya and apparent heir to mussolini, was killed by friendly fire while landing in tobruk.
528		the modern sport of fencing is played at many levels, from students learning at a university to professional and olympic competition.
529		the sport is primarily played in a duel format, one fencer dueling another.
530		golf is a game in which players use clubs to hit balls into holes.
531		eighteen holes are played during a regular round, with players usually starting on the first hole on the course and finishing on the eighteenth.
532		the player who takes the fewest strokes, or swings of the club, to complete the course wins.
533		the game is played on grass, and the grass around the hole is mown shorter and called the green.
534		perhaps the most common type of tourism is what most people associate with traveling: recreation tourism.
535		this is when people go to a place that is very different from their regular day-to-day life to relax and have fun.
536		beaches, theme parks and camp grounds are often the most common places frequented by recreational tourists.
537		if the objective of one’s visit to a particular place is to get to know its history and culture then this type of tourism is known as cultural tourism.
538		tourists may visit different landmarks of a particular country or they may simply opt to focus on just one area.
539		the colonists, seeing this activity, had also called for reinforcements.
540		troops reinforcing the forward positions included the 1st and 3rd new hampshire regiments of 200 men, under colonels john stark and james reed (both later became generals).
541		stark's men took positions along the fence on the north end of the colonist's position.
542		when low tide opened a gap along the mystic river along the northeast of the peninsula, they quickly extended the fence with a short stone wall to the north ending at the water's edge on a small beach.
543		gridley or stark placed a stake about 100 feet (30 m) in front of the fence and ordered that no one fire until the regulars passed it.
544		the american plan relied on launching coordinated attacks from three different directions.
545		general john cadwalder would launch a diversionary attack against the british garrison at bordentown, in order to block off any reinforcements.
546		general james ewing would take 700 militia across the river at trenton ferry, seize the bridge over the assunpink creek and prevent any enemy troops from escaping.
547		the main assault force of 2,400 men would cross the river nine miles north of trenton, and then split into two groups, one under greene and one under sullivan, in order to launch a pre-dawn attack.
548		with the change from the quarter to the half mile run, speed becomes of much less importance and endurance becomes an absolute necessity.
549		of course a first-class half-miler, a man who can beat two minutes, must be possessed of a fair amount of speed, but endurance must be cultivated at all hazards.
550		some cross country running during the winter, combined with gymnasium work for the upper part of the body, is the best preparation for the running season.
551		proper nutritional practices alone cannot generate elite performances, but they can significantly affect young athletes' overall wellness.
552		maintaining a healthy energy balance, practicing effective hydration habits, and understanding the various aspects of supplementation practices can help athletes improve their performance and increase their enjoyment of the sport.
553		middle distance running is a relatively inexpensive sport; however, there are many misconceptions regarding the few pieces of equipment required to participate.
554		products can be purchased as needed, but most will have little or no real impact on performance.
555		athletes may feel that they prefer a product even when it provides no real benefits.
556		the atom can be considered to be one of the fundamental building blocks of all matter.
557		its a very complex entity which consists, according to a simplified bohr model, of a central nucleus orbited by electrons, somewhat similar to planets orbiting the sun - see figure 1.1.
558		the nucleus consists of two particles - neutrons and protons.
559		protons have a positive electric charge while neutrons have no charge. the electrons have a negative electric charge.
560		to check the victim, you must first survey the scene to ensure your safety.
561		you need to notice the victim's position as you approach him or her and any automatic red flags.
562		if you get hurt trying to help, you may only serve to make matters worse.
563		the study found that depression, fear and catastrophising mediated the relationship between pain and disability in lower back pain sufferers.
564		only the effects of catastrophizing, not depression and fear was conditional of regular weekly structured pa sessions.
565		those participating in regular activity required more support in terms of negative perception of pain distinguishing the differences of chronic pain and discomfort feel from normal physical movement.
566		vision, or the ability to see depends on visual system sensory organs or eyes.
567		there are many different constructions of eyes, ranging in complexity depending on the requirements of the organism.
568		the different constructions have different capabilities, are sensitive to different wave-lengths and have differing degrees of acuity, also they require different processing to make sense of the input and different numbers to work optimally.
569		a population is the collection of organisms of a particular species within a given geographic area.
570		when all individuals in a population are identical with regard to a particular phenotypic trait they are known as monomorphic.
571		when the individuals show several variants of a particular trait they are polymorphic.
572		army ant colonies march and nest in different phases as well.
573		in the nomadic phase, army ants march at night and stop to camp during the day.
574		the colony begins a nomadic phase when available food has decreased. during this phase, the colony makes temporary nests that are changed everyday.
575		each of these nomadic rampages or marches lasts for approximately 17 days.
576		what is a cell? the word cell comes from the latin word "cella", meaning "small room", and it was first coined by a microscopist observing the structure of cork.
577		the cell is the basic unit of all living things, and all organisms are composed of one or more cells.
578		cells are so basic and critical to the study of life, in fact, that they are often referred to as "the building blocks of life".
579		the nervous system maintains homeostasis by sending nerve impulses through out the body to keep the flow of blood going as well as undisturbed.
580		these nerve impulses can be sent so quickly throughout the body which helps keep the body safe from any potential threat.
581		tornadoes strike a small area compared to other violent storms, but they can destroy everything in their path.
582		tornadoes uproot trees, rip boards from buildings, and fling cars up into the sky. the most violent two percent of tornadoes last more than three hours.
583		these monster storms have winds up to 480 km/h (133 m/s; 300 mph).
584		humans have been making and using lenses for magnification for thousands and thousands of years.
585		however, the first true telescopes were made in europe in the late 16th century.
586		these telescopes used a combination of two lenses to make distant objects appear both nearer and larger.
587		greed and selfishness will always be with us and it is the nature of cooperation that when the majority benefit there will always be more to gain in the short term by acting selfishly
588		hopefully, most people will realise that their long term best option is to work together with others.
589		many people dream of the day when humans can travel to another star and explore other worlds, some people wonder what's out there some belive that aliens or other life may live on another plant.
590		but, if this ever does happen probably won't happen for a very long time. the stars are so spread out that there are trillions of miles between stars that are "neighbors".
591		maybe one day, your great grandchildren will be standing atop an alien world wondering about their ancient ancestors?
592		animals are made of many cells. they eat things and digest them inside. most animals can move.
593		only animals have brains (though not even all animals do; jellyfish, for example, do not have brains).
594		animals are found all over the earth. they dig in the ground, swim in the oceans, and fly in the sky.
595		a cell is the smallest structural and functional unit of a living (things) organism.
596		cell comes from the latin word cella which means small room.
597		if you look at living things under a microscope, you will see that they are made of small squares or balls.
598		robert hooke, a biologist from england, saw small squares in cork with a microscope.
599		they looked like rooms. he was the first person to observe dead cells
600		elements and compounds can move from one state to another and not change.
601		nitrogen as a gas still has the same properties as liquid nitrogen. the liquid state is denser but the molecules are still the same.
602		water is another example. the compound water is made up of two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom.
603		it has the same molecular structure whether it is a gas, liquid, or solid.
604		although its physical state may change, its chemical state remains the same.
605		time is something that is all around us, and affects everything we do, yet is difficult to understand.
606		time has been studied by religious, philosophical, and scientific scholars for thousands of years.
607		we experience time as a series of events passing from the future through the present to the past.
608		time is also how we compare the duration (length) of events.
609		you can mark the passing of time yourself by observing the repetition of a cyclical event. a cyclical event is something that happens again and again regularly.
610		computers today are used to manipulate pictures and videos.
611		sophisticated animations can be constructed on computers, and this kind of animation is increasingly being used in television and films.
612		music is often recorded using sophisticated computers to process and mix sounds together.
613		for a long time during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, it was believed the first inhabitants of new zealand were the maori people, who hunted giant birds called moas.
614		the theory then established the idea that the maori people migrated from polynesia in a great fleet and took new zealand from the moriori, establishing an agricultural society.
615		however, new evidence suggests that the moriori were a group of mainland maori who migrated from new zealand to the chatham islands, developing their own distinctive, peaceful culture.
616		there was also another tribe on the chatham islands these were maori who migrated away from new zealand.
617		they called themselves the moriori there were a few skirmishes and in the end, the moriori were wiped out
618		individuals who had been involved for several decades helped us appreciate our strengths and passions while candidly assessing difficulties and even failures.
619		while listening to individuals share their individual, family, and organizational stories, we gained valuable insight into the past and some of the personalities who influenced for good or ill the culture of the organization.
620		while understanding one’s history does not assume understanding of culture, it does at least help people gain a sense of where they fall within the history of the organization.
621		while assessing the successes and becoming aware of failures, individuals and the whole of the participating persons discover more deeply the values, mission, and driving forces of the organization.
622		in this instance, recalling previous instances of entrepreneurial behavior and resulting successes helped people to be open to new changes and new direction for the local church.
623		such success stories lessened the fears of change, while creating positive inclinations toward change in the future.
624		convergent thinking patterns are problem solving techniques that unite different ideas or fields to find a solution.
625		the focus of this mindset is speed, logic and accuracy, also identification of facts, reapplying existing techniques, gathering information.
626		the most important factor of this mindset is: there is only one correct answer. you only think of two answers, namely right or wrong.
627		this type of thinking is associated with certain science or standard procedures.
628		people with this type of thinking have logical thinking, are able to memorize patterns, solve problems and work on scientific tests.
629		humans are by far the most talented species in reading the minds of others.
630		that means we are able to successfully predict what other humans perceive, intend, believe, know or desire.
631		among these abilities, understanding the intention of others is crucial. it allows us to resolve possible ambiguities of physical actions.
632		for example, if you were to see someone breaking a car window, you would probably assume he was trying to steal a stranger’s car.
633		he would need to be judged differently if he had lost his car keys and it was his own car that he was trying to break into.
634		mri is based on a physics phenomenon called nuclear magnetic resonance (nmr), which was discovered in the 1930s by felix bloch (working at stanford university) and edward purcell (from harvard university).
635		in this resonance, magnetic field and radio waves cause atoms to give off tiny radio signals.
636		in the year 1970, raymond damadian, a medical doctor and research scientist, discovered the basis for using magnetic resonance imaging as a tool for medical diagnosis.
637		four years later a patent was granted, which was the world's first patent issued in the field of mri.
638		in 1977, dr. damadian completed the construction of the first “whole-body” mri scanner, which he called the ”indomitable”.
639		asynchronous communication encourages time for reflection and reaction to others.
640		it allows students the ability to work at their own pace and control the pace of instructional information.
641		in addition, there are fewer time restrictions with the possibility of flexible working hours. (bremer, 1998)
642		the use of the internet and the world wide web allows learners to have access to information at all times.
643		students can also submit questions to instructors at any time of day and expect reasonably quick responses, rather than waiting until the next face-to-face meeting.
644		the postmodern approach to learning offers the freedom from absolutes. there is no one good way to learn.
645		in fact, there is not one good thing to learn.learning takes place in the experience between the learner and the knowledge presented.
646		our current experience with all the do-it-yourself and information presenting, learning-based television shows illustrates this point.
647		so many of us find ourselves watching a television show that informs us of a process or experience in which we will never participate or apply that knowledge.
648		we will never overhaul a car, build a fountain in our backyard, travel to peru to examine ancient ruins, or remodel our neighbour's house.
649		thanks to undersea fiber optic cable links to europe and broadband satellite, greenland is well connected with 93% of the population having internet access.
650		your hotel or hosts (if staying in a guesthouse or private home) will likely have wifi or an internet connected pc, and all settlements have an internet cafe or some location with public wifi.
651		as mentioned above, though the word "eskimo" remains acceptable in the united states, it is considered pejorative by many non-u.s. arctic peoples, especially in canada.
652		while you may hear the word used by greenlandic natives, its use should be avoided by foreigners.
653		the native inhabitants of greenland call themselves inuit in canada and kalaalleq (plural kalaallit), a greenlander, in greenland.
654		crime, and ill-will toward foreigners in general, is virtually unknown in greenland. even in the towns, there are no "rough areas."
655		cold weather is perhaps the only real danger the unprepared will face.
656		if you visit greenland during cold seasons (considering that the further north you go, the colder it will be), it is essential to bring warm enough clothing.
657		the very long days in the summer can lead to problems getting sufficient sleep and associated health issues.
658		during the summer, also watch out for the nordic mosquitoes. although they do not transmit any diseases, they can be irritating.
659		while san francisco's economy is linked to it being a world-class tourist attraction, its economy is diversified.
660		the largest employment sectors are professional services, government, finance, trade, and tourism.
661		its frequent portrayal in music, films, literature and popular culture has helped make the city and its landmarks known throughout the world.
662		san francisco has developed a large tourist infrastructure with numerous hotels, restaurants, and top-notch convention facilities.
663		san francisco is also one of the best places in the nation for other asian cuisine: korean, thai, indian, and japanese.
664		traveling to walt disney world represents a major pilgrimage for many american families.
665		the "typical" visit involves flying into orlando international airport, busing to an on-site disney hotel, spending about a week without leaving disney property, and returning home.
666		there are infinite variations possible, but this remains what most people mean when they talk of "going to disney world".
667		many tickets sold online through auction websites such as ebay or craigslist are partially used multi-day park-hopper tickets.
668		while this is a very common activity, it is prohibited by disney: the tickets are non-transferable.
669		any camping below the rim in grand canyon requires a backcountry permit.
670		permits are limited to protect the canyon, and become available on the 1st day of the month, four months prior to the start month.
671		thus, a backcountry permit for any start date in may becomes available on 1 jan.
672		space for the most popular areas, such as the bright angel campground adjacent to phantom ranch, generally fill up by the requests received on first date they are opened to reservations.
673		there are a limited number permits reserved for walk-in requests available on a first come, first served basis.
674		entering southern africa by car is an amazing way to see all the region's beauty as well as to get to places off the normal tourist routes.
675		this can be done in a normal car with careful planning but a 4x4 is highly advised and many locations are only accessible with a high wheel base 4x4.
676		keep in mind while planning that although southern africa is stable not all neighboring countries are.
677		visa requirements and costs vary from nation to nation and are affected by the country you come from.
678		each country also has unique laws requiring what emergency items need to be in the car.
679		victoria falls is a town in the western portion of zimbabwe, across the border from livingstone, zambia, and near botswana.
680		the town lies immediately next to the falls, and they are the major attraction, but this popular tourist destination offers both adventure seekers and sightseers plenty of opportunities for a longer stay.
681		in the rainy season (november to march), the water volume will be higher and the falls will be more dramatic.
682		you are guaranteed to get wet if you cross the bridge or walk along the trails winding near the falls.
683		on the other hand, it is precisely because the volume of water is so high that your viewing of the actual falls will be obscured—by all the water!
684		tomb of tutankhamun (kv62). kv62 may be the most famous of the tombs in the valley, the scene of howard carter's 1922 discovery of the almost intact royal burial of the young king.
685		compared to most of the other royal tombs, however, the tomb of tutankhamun is barely worth visiting, being much smaller and with limited decoration.
686		anyone interested in seeing evidence of the damage to the mummy done during attempts to remove it from the coffin will be disappointed as only the head and shoulders are visible.
687		the fabulous riches of the tomb are no longer in it, but have been removed to the egyptian museum in cairo.
688		visitors with limited time would be best to spend their time elsewhere.
689		phnom krom, 12 km southwest of siem reap. this hilltop temple was built at the end of the 9th century, during the reign of king yasovarman.
690		the gloomy atmosphere of the temple and the view over the tonle sap lake make the climb to the hill worthwhile.
691		a visit to the site can be conveniently combined with a boat trip to the lake.
692		the angkor pass is needed to enter the temple so do not forget to bring your passport along when heading to tonle sap.
693		jerusalem is the capital and largest city of israel, though most other countries and the united nations do not recognize it as israel's capital.
694		the ancient city in the judean hills has a fascinating history spanning thousands of years.
695		the city is holy to the three monotheistic religions - judaism, christianity and islam, and serves as a spiritual, religious, and cultural center.
696		due to the religious significance of the city, and in particular the many sites of the old city area, jerusalem is one of the main tourist destinations in israel.
697		jerusalem has many historic, archeological and cultural sites, along with vibrant and crowded shopping centers, cafés, and restaurants.
698		ecuador requires that cuban citizens receive an invitation letter prior to entering ecuador through international airports or frontier admission points.
699		this letter must be legalized by the ecuadorian ministry of foreign affairs, and comply with certain requirements.
700		these requirements are designed to provide an organized migratory flow between both countries.
701		cuban citizens who are us green card holders should visit an ecuadorian consulate to obtain an exemption to this requirement.
702		your passport must be valid for at least 6 months beyond your travel dates. a round/onward trip ticket is needed to prove the length of your stay.
703		tours are cheaper for larger groups, so if you're by yourself or with just one friend, try to meet other people and form a group of four to six for a better per-person rate.
704		however, this shouldn't really be off your concern, because often tourists are shuffled around to fill the cars.
705		it seems actually to be more a way of tricking people into believing they have to pay more.
706		towering above the north end of machu picchu is this steep mountain, often the backdrop to many photos of the ruins.
707		it looks a bit daunting from below, and it is a steep and difficult ascent, but most reasonably fit persons should be able to make it in about 45 minutes.
708		stone steps are laid along most of the path, and in the steeper sections steel cables provide a supporting handrail.
709		that said, expect to be out of breath, and take care in the steeper portions, especially when wet, as it can become dangerous quickly.
710		there's a tiny cave near the top that must be passed through, it is quite low and a rather tight squeeze.
711		seeing the sites and wildlife of the galapagos is best done by boat, just as charles darwin did it in 1835.
712		over 60 cruise ships ply the galapagos waters - ranging in size from 8 to 100 passengers.
713		most people book their place well in advance (as the boats are usually full during the high season).
714		be sure the agent through whom you book is a galapagos specialist with a good knowledge of a wide variety of ships.
715		this will ensure that your particular interests and/or constraints are matched with the ship most suitable to them.
716		before the spanish arrived in the 16th century, northern chile was under inca rule while the indigenous araucanians (mapuche) inhabited central and southern chile.
717		the mapuche were also one of the last independent american indigenous groups, that were not fully absorbed into spanish-speaking rule until after chile's independence.
718		although chile declared independence in 1810 (amid the napoleonic wars that left spain without a functioning central government for a couple of years), decisive victory over the spanish was not achieved until 1818.
719		the dominican republic (spanish: república dominicana) is a caribbean country that occupies the eastern half of the island of hispaniola, which it shares with haiti
720		besides white sand beaches and mountain landscapes, the country is home to the oldest european city in the americas, now part of santo domingo.
721		the island was first inhabited by the taínos and caribes. the caribes were an arawakan-speaking people who had arrived around 10,000 bce.
722		within a few short years following the arrival of european explorers, the population of tainos had significantly been reduced by the spanish conquerors
723		based on fray bartolomé de las casas (tratado de las indias) between 1492 and 1498 the spanish conquerors killed around 100,000 taínos.
724		jardín de la unión. this space was built as the atrium for a 17th-century convent, of which the templo de san diego is the sole surviving building.
725		it now functions as the central plaza, and always has a lot of things going on, day and night.
726		there are a number of restaurants surrounding the garden, and in the afternoons and evening there free concerts are often given from the central gazebo.
727		callejon del beso (alley of the kiss). two balconies separated by only 69 centimeters is home of an old love legend.
728		for a few pennies some children will tell you the story.
729		bowen island is a popular day trip or weekend excursion offering kayaking, hiking, shops, restaurants, and more.
730		this authentic community is located in howe sound just off vancouver, and is easily accessed via scheduled water taxis departing granville island in downtown vancouver.
731		for those who enjoy outdoor activities, a trek up the sea to sky corridor is essential.
732		whistler (1.5 hour drive from vancouver) is expensive but well-known because of the 2010 winter olympics.
733		in the winter, enjoy some of the best skiing in north america, and in the summer try some authentic mountain biking.
734		permits must be reserved in advance. you must have a permit to stay overnight at sirena.
735		sirena is the only ranger station that offers dormitory lodging and hot meals in addition to camping. la leona, san pedrillo, and los patos offer only camping with no food service.
736		it is possible to secure park permits directly from the ranger station in puerto jiménez, but they do not accept credit cards
737		the park service (minae) does not issue park permits more than one month in advance of anticipated arrival.
738		cafenet el sol offers a reservation service for a fee of us$30, or $10 for one-day passes; details on their corcovado page.
739		the cook islands are an island country in free association with new zealand, located in polynesia, in the middle of the south pacific ocean.
740		it is an archipelago with 15 islands spread out over 2.2 million km2 of ocean.
741		with the same time zone as hawaii, the islands are sometimes thought of as "hawaii down under".
742		though smaller, it reminds some elderly visitors of hawaii before statehood without all the large tourist hotels and other development.
743		the cook islands do not have any cities but are composed of 15 different islands. the main ones are rarotonga and aitutaki.
744		in developed countries today, providing deluxe bed and breakfasts has been raised to a sort of art-form.
745		at the top end, b&bs obviously compete mainly on two main things: bedding and breakfast.
746		accordingly, at the finest such establishments one is apt to find the most luxurious bedding, maybe a handmade quilt or an antique bed.
747		breakfast may include seasonal delights of the region or the host's speciality dish.
748		the setting might be an historic old building with antique furnishings, manicured grounds and a swimming pool.
749		getting into your own car and heading off on a long road trip has an intrinsic appeal in its simplicity.
750		unlike larger vehicles, you are probably already familiar with driving your car and know its limitations.
751		setting up a tent on private property or in a town of any size can easily attract unwanted attention.
752		in short, using your car is a great way to take a road trip but seldom in itself a way to "camp".
753		car camping is possible if you have a large minivan, suv, sedan or station wagon with seats that lay down.
754		some hotels have a heritage from the golden age of steam railways and ocean liners; before the second world war, in the 19th or early 20th centuries.
755		these hotels were where the rich and the famous of the day would stay, and often had fine dining and nightlife.
756		the old fashioned fittings, the lack of the latest amenities, and a certain graceful agedness are also part of their character.
757		while they are usually privately owned, they sometimes accommodate visiting heads of state and other dignitaries.
758		a traveller with piles of money might consider a round the world flight, broken up with stays in many of these hotels.
759		a hospitality exchange network is the organization that connects travelers with locals in the cities they are going to visit.
760		joining such a network usually just requires filling out an online form; although some networks offer or require additional verification.
761		a listing of available hosts is then provided either in print and/or online, sometimes with references and reviews by other travelers.
762		couchsurfing was founded in january 2004 after computer programmer casey fenton found a cheap flight to iceland but did not have a place to stay.
763		he emailed students at the local university and received an overwhelming number of offers for free accommodation.
764		hostels cater primarily to young people – a typical guest is in their twenties – but you can often find older travellers there too.
765		families with children are a rare sight, but some hostels do allow them in private rooms.
766		the city of beijing in china will be the host city of the olympic winter games in 2022, which will make it the first city to have hosted both the summer and winter olympics.
767		beijing will host the opening and closing ceremonies and the indoor ice events.
768		other skiing events will be at the taizicheng ski area in zhangjiakou, about 220 km (140 miles) from beijing.
769		most of the temples do have an annual festival starting from november end to mid of may, which varies according to each temple's annual calendar.
770		most of the temple festivals is celebrated as part of temple's anniversary or presiding deity's birthday or any other major event associated with the temple.
771		kerala's temple festivals are very interesting to see, with regular procession of decorated elephants, temple orchestra and other festivities.
772		a world's fair (commonly called world exposition, or simply expo) is large international festival of arts and sciences.
773		participating countries present artistic and educational displays in national pavilions to showcase world issues or their country's culture and history.
774		international horticultural expositions are specialised events which showcase floral displays, botanical gardens and anything else to do with plants.
775		although in theory they can take place annually (so long as they are in different countries), in practice they are not.
776		these events normally last anywhere between three and six months, and are held on sites no smaller than 50 hectares.
777		there are many different film formats that have been used over the years. standard 35 mm film (36 by 24 mm negative) is much the commonest.
778		it can usually be replenished fairly easily if you run out, and gives resolution roughly comparable to a current dslr.
779		some medium-format film cameras use a 6 by 6 cm format, more precisely a 56 by 56 mm negative.
780		this gives resolution almost four times that of a 35 mm negative (3136 mm2 versus 864).
781		wildlife is among the most challenging motifs for a photographer, and needs a combination of good luck, patience, experience and good equipment.
782		wildlife photography is often taken for granted, but like photography in general, a picture is worth a thousand words.
783		wildlife photography often requires a long telephoto lens, though things like a flock of birds or a tiny creature need other lenses.
784		many exotic animals are hard to find, and parks sometimes have rules about taking photographs for commercial purposes.
785		wild animals might either be shy or aggressive. the environment might be cold, hot, or otherwise hostile.
786		the world has over 5,000 different languages, including more than twenty with 50 million or more speakers.
787		written words are often easier to understand than spoken words, also. this is especially true of addresses, which are often difficult to pronounce intelligibly.
788		many entire nations are completely fluent in english, and in even more you can expect a limited knowledge - especially among younger people.
789		imagine, if you will, a mancunian, bostonian, jamaican and sydneysider sitting around a table having dinner at a restaurant in toronto.
790		they're regaling each other with stories from their hometowns, told in their distinct accents and local argot.
791		buying food in supermarkets is usually the cheapest way to get fed. without cooking opportunities, choices are however limited to ready-made food.
792		increasingly supermarkets are getting a more varied section of ready-made food. some even provide a microwave oven or other means to heat food.
793		in some countries or types of stores there is at least one on-site restaurant, often a rather informal one with affordable prices.
794		make and carry copies of your policy and your insurer's contact details with you.
795		they need to show the insurer's e-mail address and international phone numbers for advice/authorizations and making claims.
796		have another copy in your luggage and online (e-mail to yourself with attachment, or stored in the "cloud").
797		if traveling with a laptop or tablet, store a copy in its memory or disc (accessible without the internet).
798		also give policy/contact copies to traveling companions and relatives or friends back home willing to help.
799		moose (also known as elk) aren't inherently aggressive, but will defend themselves if they perceive a threat.
800		when people don't see moose as potentially dangerous, they may approach too closely and put themselves at risk.
801		drink alcoholic drinks with moderation. alcohol affects everyone differently, and knowing your limit is very important.
802		possible long term health events from excessive drinking can include liver damage and even blindness and death. the potential danger is increased when consuming illegally produced alcohol.
803		illegal spirits can contain various dangerous impurities including methanol, which can cause blindness or death even in small doses.
804		eyeglasses can be cheaper in a foreign country, especially in low-income countries where labour costs are lower.
805		consider getting an eye exam at home, especially if insurance covers it, and bringing the prescription along to be filed elsewhere.
806		high-end brand-name frames available in such areas may have two problems; some may be knock-offs, and the real imported ones may be more expensive than at home.
807		coffee is one of the world's most traded commodities, and you can probably find many types in your home region.
808		nevertheless, there are many distinctive ways of drinking coffee around the world that are worth experiencing.
809		canyoning (or: canyoneering) is about going in a bottom of a canyon, which is either dry or full of water.
810		canyoning combines elements from swimming, climbing and jumping--but requires relatively little training or physical shape to get started (compared to rock climbing, scuba diving or alpine skiing, for example).
811		hiking is an outdoor activity which consists of walking in natural environments, often on hiking trails.
812		day hiking involves distances of less than a mile up to longer distances that can be covered in a single day.
813		for a day hike along an easy trail little preparations are needed, and any moderately fit person can enjoy them.
814		families with small children may need more preparations, but a day outdoors is easily possible even with babies and pre-school children.
815		internationally, there are nearly 200 running tour organizations. most of them operate independently.
816		the global running tours successor, go running tours networks dozens of sightrunning providers on four continents.
817		with roots in barcelona's running tours barcelona and copenhagen's running copenhagen, it was quickly joined by running tours prague based in prague and others.
818		there are many things you have to take into consideration before and when you travel somewhere.
819		when you travel, expect things not to be like they are "back home". manners, laws, food, traffic, lodging, standards, language and so on will to some extent differ from where you live.
820		this is something you always need to keep in mind, to avoid disappointment or perhaps even distaste over local ways to do things.
821		travel agencies have been around since the 19th century. a travel agent is usually a good option for a journey which extends beyond a traveller's previous experience of nature, culture, language or low-income countries.
822		although most agencies are willing to take on most regular bookings, many agents specialise in particular types of travel, budget ranges or destinations.
823		it can be better to use an agent who frequently books similar trips to yours.
824		take a look at what trips the agent is promoting, whether on a website or in a shop window.
825		if you want to see the world on the cheap, for necessity, lifestyle or challenge, there are some ways to do that.
826		basically, they fall into two categories: either work while you travel or try and limit your expenses. this article is focused on the latter.
827		for those willing to sacrifice comfort, time and predictability to push expenses down close to zero, see minimum budget travel.
828		the advice assumes that travellers do not steal, trespass, participate in the illegal market, beg, or otherwise exploit other people for their own gain.
829		an immigration checkpoint is usually the first stop when disembarking from a plane, a ship, or another vehicle.
830		in some cross-border trains inspections are done on the running train and you should have valid id with you when boarding one of those trains.
831		on night sleeper trains, passports may be collected by the conductor so that you do not have your sleep interrupted.
832		registration is an additional requirement for the visa process. in some countries, you must register your presence and address where you are staying with the local authorities.
833		this might require filling out a form with the local police or a visit to the immigration offices.
834		in many countries with such a law, local hotels will handle the registration (make sure to ask).
835		in other cases, only those staying outside of tourist accommodations need to register.  however, this makes the law much more obscure, so find out beforehand.
836		architecture is concerned with the design and construction of buildings. the architecture of a place is often a tourist attraction in its own right.
837		many buildings are quite beautiful to look at and the view from a tall building or from a cleverly-positioned window can be a beauty to behold.
838		architecture overlaps considerably with other fields including urban planning, civil engineering, decorative arts, interior design and landscape design.
839		given how remote many of the pueblos are, you won't be able to find a significant amount of nightlife without traveling to albuquerque or santa fe.
840		however, nearly all of the casinos listed above serve drinks, and several of them bring in name-brand entertainment (primarily the large ones immediately surrounding albuquerque and santa fe).
841		beware: small-town bars here are not always good places for the out-of-state visitor to hang out.
842		for one thing, northern new mexico has significant problems with drunk driving, and the concentration of intoxicated drivers is high close to small-town bars.
843		unwanted murals or scribble is known as graffiti.
844		while it's far from a modern phenomenon, most people probably associate it with youth vandalizing public and private property using spray paint.
845		however, nowadays there are established graffiti artists, graffiti events and "legal" walls. graffiti paintings in this context often resemble artworks rather than illegible tags.
846		boomerang throwing is a popular skill that many tourists want to acquire.
847		if you want to learn throwing a boomerang that comes back to your hand, make sure you have a suitable boomerang for returning.
848		most boomerangs available in australia are in fact non-returning. it is best for beginners to not try throwing in windy
849		a hangi meal is cooked in a hot pit in the ground.
850		the pit is either heated with hot stones from a fire, or in some places geothermal heat makes areas of ground naturally hot.
851		the hangi is often used to cook a traditional roast style dinner.
852		several places in rotorua offer geothermal hangi, while other hangi can be sampled in christchurch, wellington and elsewhere.
853		metrorail has two classes on commuter trains in and around cape town: metroplus (also called first class) and metro (called third class).
854		metroplus is more comfortable and less crowded but slightly more expensive, though still cheaper than normal metro tickets in europe.
855		every train has both metroplus and metro coaches; the metroplus coaches are always on the end of the train nearest cape town.
856		carrying for others - never let your bags out of your sight, especially when you are crossing international borders.
857		you could find yourself being used as a drug carrier without your knowledge, which will land you in a great deal of trouble.
858		this includes waiting in line, as drug-sniffing dogs could be used at any time without notice.
859		some countries have exceedingly draconian punishments even for first time offenses; these can include prison sentences of over 10 years or death.
860		unattended bags are a target for theft and can also attract attention from authorities wary of bomb threats.
861		at home, due to this constant exposure to the local germs, odds are very high that you're already immune to them.
862		but in other parts of the world, where the bacteriological fauna are new to you, you're far more likely to run into problems.
863		also, in warmer climates bacteria both grow more quickly and survive longer outside the body.
864		thus the scourges of delhi belly, the pharaoh's curse, montezuma's revenge, and their many friends.
865		as with respiratory problems in colder climates, intestinal problems in hot climates are fairly common and in most cases are distinctly annoying but not really dangerous.
866		if traveling in a developing country for the first time – or in a new part of the world – don't underestimate the potential culture shock.
867		many a stable, capable traveler has been overcome by the newness of developing world travel, where many little cultural adjustments can add up quickly.
868		especially in your initial days, consider splurging on western-style and -quality hotels, food, and services to help acclimatize.
869		do not sleep on a mattress or pad on the ground in areas where you do not know the local fauna.
870		if you are going to camp out, bring a camp cot or hammock to keep you away from snakes, scorpions and such.
871		fill your home with a rich coffee in the morning and some relaxing chamomile tea at night.
872		when you're on a staycation, you have the time to treat yourself and take a few extra minutes to brew up something special.
873		if you're feeling more adventurous, take the opportunity to juice or blend up some smoothies:
874		maybe you'll discover a simple beverage that you can make for breakfast when you're back to your daily routine.
875		if you live in a city with a varied drinking culture, go to bars or pubs in neighborhoods you don't frequent.
876		for those unfamiliar with medical jargon, the words infectious and contagious have distinct meanings.
877		an infectious disease is one that is caused by a pathogen, such as a virus, bacterium, fungus or other parasites.
878		a contagious disease is a disease which is easily transmitted by being in the vicinity of an infected person.
879		many governments require visitors entering, or residents leaving, their countries to be vaccinated for a range of diseases.
880		these requirements may often depend on what countries a traveller has visited or intends to visit.
881		one of strong points of charlotte, north carolina, is that it has an abundance of high-quality options for families.
882		residents from other areas often cite family-friendliness as a primary reason for moving there, and visitors often find the city easy to enjoy with children around.
883		in the past 20 years, the amount of child-friendly options in uptown charlotte has grown exponentially.
884		taxis are not generally used by families in charlotte, though they can be of some use in certain circumstances.
885		there is a surcharge for having more than 2 passengers, so this option might be more expensive than necessary.
886		antarctica is the coldest place on earth, and surrounds the south pole.
887		tourist visits are costly, demand physical fitness, can only take place in summer nov-feb, and are largely limited to the peninsula, islands and ross sea.
888		a couple of thousand staff live here in summer in some four dozen bases mostly in those areas; a small number stay over winter.
889		inland antarctica is a desolate plateau covered by 2-3 km of ice.
890		occasional specialist air tours go inland, for mountaineering or to reach the pole, which has a large base.
891		the south pole traverse (or highway) is a 1600 km trail from mcmurdo station on the ross sea to the pole.
892		it's compacted snow with crevasses filled in and marked by flags. it can only be traveled by specialized tractors, hauling sleds with fuel and supplies.
893		these aren't very nimble so the trail has to take a long swerve around the transantarctic mountains to come onto the plateau.
894		the most common cause for accidents in winter is slippery roads, pavements (sidewalks) and especially steps.
895		at a minimum, you need footwear with suitable soles. summer shoes are usually very slippery on ice and snow, even some winter boots are deficient.
896		the pattern should be deep enough, 5 mm (1/5 inch) or more, and the material soft enough in cold temperatures.
897		some boots have studs and there is studded add-on equipment for slippery conditions, suitable for most shoes and boots, for the heels or heels and sole.
898		heels should be low and wide. sand, gravel or salt (calcium chloride) is often scattered on roads or paths to improve traction.
899		avalanches are not an abnormality; steep slopes can hold only so much slow, and the excess volumes will come down as avalanches.
900		the problem is that snow is sticky, so it needs some triggering to come down, and some snow coming down can be the triggering event for the rest.
901		sometimes the original trigging event is the sun warming the snow, sometimes some more snowfall, sometimes other natural events, often a human.
902		a tornado is a spinning column of very low-pressure air, which sucks the surrounding air inward and upward.
903		they generate high winds (often 100-200 miles/hour) and can lift heavy objects into the air, carrying them as the tornado moves.
904		they begin as funnels descending from storm clouds, and become "tornadoes" when they touch the ground.
905		personal vpn (virtual private network) providers are an excellent way of circumventing both political censorship and commercial ip-geofiltering.
906		they are superior to web proxies for several reasons: they re-route all internet traffic, not only http.
907		they normally offer higher bandwidth and better quality of service. they are encrypted and thus harder to spy on.
908		the media companies routinely lie about the purpose of this, claiming that it is to "prevent piracy".
909		in fact, region codes have absolutely no effect on illegal copying; a bit-for-bit copy of a disk will play just fine on any device where the original will.
910		the actual purpose is to give those companies more control over their markets; it's all about money spinning.
911		because calls are routed over the internet, you do not need to use a phone company located where you live or where you travel.
912		there is also no requirement that you obtain a local number from the community in which you live; you can obtain a satellite internet connection in the wilds of chicken, alaska and select a number which claims you're in sunny arizona.
913		often, you have to buy a global number separately that allows pstn phones to call you. where the number is from makes a difference for people calling you.
914		real-time text translator apps – applications that are capable of automatically translating whole segments of text from one language into another.
915		some of the applications in this category can even translate texts in foreign languages on signs or other objects in the real world when the user points the smartphone towards those objects.
916		the translation engines have improved dramatically, and now often give more or less correct translations (and more seldom gibberish), but some care is due, as they still may have gotten it all wrong.
917		one of the most prominent apps in this category is google translate, which allows offline translation after downloading the desired language data.
918		using gps navigation apps on your smartphone can be the easiest and most convenient way to navigate when out of your home country.
919		it can save money over buying new maps for a gps, or a standalone gps device or renting one from a car rental company.
920		if you don't have a data connection for your phone, or when it is out of range, their performance can be limited or unavailable.
921		every corner store is filled with a confusing array of pre-paid phone cards that can be used from pay phones or ordinary telephones.
922		while most cards are good for calling anywhere, some specialise in providing favourable call rates to specific groups of countries.
923		access to these services is often through a toll-free telephone number that can be called from most phones without charge.
924		rules regarding regular photography also apply to video recording, possibly even more so.
925		if just taking a photo of something isn't allowed, then you shouldn't even think of recording a video of it.
926		if using a drone, check well in advance as to what you are allowed to film and what permits or additional licensing are required.
927		flying a drone near an airport or over a crowd is almost always a bad idea, even if it's not illegal in your area.
928		nowadays air travel is only rarely booked directly through the airline without first searching and comparing prices.
929		sometimes the same flight can have vastly differing prices at various agregators and it pays to compare search results and to also look at the website of the airline itself before booking.
930		while you may not need a visa for short visits to certain countries as a tourist or for business, going there as an international student generally requires a longer stay than going there just as a casual tourist.
931		in general, staying in any foreign country for an extended period of time will require you to obtain a visa in advance.
932		student visas generally have different requirements and application procedures from normal tourist or business visas.
933		for most countries, you will need an offer letter from the institution you wish to study at, and also evidence of funds to support yourself for at least the first year of your course.
934		check with the institution, as well as the immigration department for the country you wish to study in for detailed requirements.
935		unless you are a diplomat, working overseas generally means that you will have to file income tax in the country you are based in.
936		income tax is structured differently in different countries, and the tax rates and brackets vary widely from one country to another.
937		in some federal countries, such as the united states and canada, income tax is levied both at the federal level and at the local level, so the rates and brackets can vary from region to region.
938		while immigration check is usually absent or a formality when you arrive in your homeland, customs control can be a hassle.
939		make sure you know what you can and cannot bring in and declare anything over the legal limits.
940		the easiest way to get started in the business of travel writing is to hone your skills on an established travel blog website.
941		after you become comfortable with formatting and editing on the web, then later, you might create your own website.
942		volunteering while travelling is a great way to make a difference but it's not just about giving.
943		living and volunteering in a foreign country is a great way to get to know a different culture, meet new people, learn about yourself, get a sense of perspective and even gain new skills.
944		it can also be a good way to stretch a budget to allow a longer stay somewhere since many volunteer jobs provide room and board and a few pay a small salary.
945		vikings used the russian waterways to get to the black sea and caspian sea. parts of these routes can still be used. check possible need for special permits, which may be difficult to get.
946		the white sea–baltic canal connects the arctic ocean to the baltic sea, via lake onega, lake ladoga and saint petersburg, mostly by rivers and lakes.
947		lake onega is also connected to volga, so coming from the caspian sea through russia is still possible.
948		be assured that once you hit the marinas everything will be pretty obvious. you will meet other boat hitchhikers and they will share their information with you.
949		basically you'll be putting up notices offering your help, pacing the docks, approaching people cleaning their yachts, trying to make contact with sailors in the bar, etc.
950		try to talk to as many people as possible. after a while everyone will know you and will give you hints as to which boat is looking for someone.
951		you should choose your frequent flyer airline in an alliance carefully.
952		although you may think it is intuitive to join the airline you fly most, you should be aware that privileges offered are often different and frequent flyer points may be more generous under a different airline in the same alliance.
953		airlines such as emirates, etihad airways, qatar airways & turkish airlines have greatly expanded their services to africa, and offer connections to many major african cities at competitive rates than other european airlines.
954		turkish airlines flies to 39 destinations in 30 african countries as of 2014.
955		if you have additional travel time, check to see how your total fare quote to africa compares with a round-the-world fare.
956		don't forget to add in the extra costs of additional visas, departure taxes, ground transportation, etc. for all those places outside of africa.
957		if you want to fly around the world completely in the southern hemisphere, the choice of flights and destinations is limited due to the lack of transoceanic routes.
958		no airline alliance covers all three ocean crossings in the southern hemisphere (and skyteam covers none of the crossings).
959		however, star alliance covers everything except the eastern south pacific from santiago de chile to tahiti, which is a latam oneworld flight.
960		this flight is not the only option if you want to skip the south pacific and the west coast of south america. (see below)
961		in 1994, the ethnically armenian nagorno-karabakh region of azerbaijan waged war against the azeris.
962		with armenian backing, a new republic was created. however, no established nation - not even armenia - officially recognizes it.
963		diplomatic arguments over the region continue to mar relations between armenia and azerbaijan.
964		the canal district (dutch: grachtengordel) is the famous 17th-century district surrounding the binnenstad of amsterdam.
965		the whole district is designated as a unesco world heritage site for its unique cultural and historical value, and its property values are among the highest of the country.
966		cinque terre, which means five lands, comprises the five small coastal villages of riomaggiore, manarola, corniglia, vernazza and monterosso located in the italian region of liguria.
967		they are listed on the unesco world heritage list.
968		over the centuries, people have carefully built terraces on the rugged, steep landscape right up to the cliffs that overlook the sea.
969		part of its charm is the lack of visible corporate development. paths, trains and boats connect the villages, and cars cannot reach them from the outside.
970		the varieties of french which are spoken in belgium and switzerland differ slightly from the french spoken in france, though they are similar enough to be mutually intelligible.
971		in particular, the numbering system in french-speaking belgium and switzerland has some slight peculiarities that are different from the french spoken in france, and the pronunciation of some words is slightly different.
972		nevertheless, all french-speaking belgians and swiss would have learned standard french in school, so they would be able to understand you even if you used the standard french numbering system.
973		in many parts of the world, waving is a friendly gesture, indicating "hello."
974		however, in malaysia, at least among the malays in rural areas, it means "come over," similar to the index finger bent toward the body, a gesture which is used in certain western countries, and should be used only for that purpose.
975		similarly, a british traveller in spain may mistake a wave goodbye involving the palm facing the waver (rather than the person being waved at) as a gesture to come back.
976		auxiliary languages are artificial or constructed languages created with the intent of facilitating communication between peoples who would otherwise have difficulty communicating.
977		they are separate from lingua francas, which are natural or organic languages that become dominant for one reason or another as means of communication between speakers of other languages.
978		in the heat of the day, travelers can experience mirages that give the illusion of water (or other things).
979		these can be dangerous if the traveler pursue the mirage, wasting precious energy and remaining water.
980		even the hottest of deserts can become extremely cold at night. hypothermia is a real risk without warm clothing.
981		in summer, especially, you'll need to watch out for mosquitoes if you decide to hike through the rainforest.
982		even if you're driving through the subtropical rainforest, a few seconds with the doors open while you get inside the vehicle is enough time for mosquitoes to get in the vehicle with you.
983		bird flu, or more formally avian influenza, can infect both birds and mammals.
984		fewer than a thousand cases have ever been reported in humans, but some of them have been fatal.
985		most have involved people who work with poultry, but there is also some risk to birdwatchers.
986		typical for norway are steep fjords and valleys that suddenly give way to a high, more or less even plateau.
987		these plateaus are often referred to as "vidde" meaning a wide, open treeless space, a boundless expanse.
988		in rogaland and agder they are usually called "hei" meaning a treeless moorland often covered in heather.
989		the glaciers are not stable, but flow down the mountain. this will cause cracks, crevasses, which may be obscured by snow bridges.
990		the walls and roofs of ice caves can collapse and cracks can get closed.
991		at the edge of glaciers huge blocks break loose, fall down and perhaps jump or roll farther from the edge.
992		the tourist season for the hill stations generally peaks during the indian summer.
993		however, they have a different kind of beauty and charm during winter, with many hill stations receiving healthy amounts of snow and offering activities such as skiing and snowboarding.
994		only a few airlines still offer bereavement fares, which slightly discount the cost of last-minute funeral travel.
995		airlines that offer these include air canada, delta air lines, lufthansa for flights originating from the u.s. or canada, and westjet.
996		in all cases, you must book by phone directly with the airline.
997		"we now have 4-month-old mice that are non-diabetic that used to be diabetic," he added.
998		dr. ehud ur, professor of medicine at dalhousie university in halifax, nova scotia and chair of the clinical and scientific division of the canadian diabetes association cautioned that the research is still in its early days.
999		like some other experts, he is skeptical about whether diabetes can be cured, noting that these findings have no relevance to people who already have type 1 diabetes.
1000		on monday, sara danius, permanent secretary of the nobel committee for literature at the swedish academy, publicly announced during a radio program on sveriges radio in sweden the committee, unable to reach bob dylan directly about winning the 2016 nobel prize in literature, had abandoned its efforts to reach him.
1001		danius said, "right now we are doing nothing. i have called and sent emails to his closest collaborator and received very friendly replies. for now, that is certainly enough."
1002		previously, ring's ceo, jamie siminoff, remarked the company started when his doorbell wasn't audible from his shop in his garage.
1003		he built a wifi door bell, he said.
1004		siminoff said sales boosted after his 2013 appearance in a shark tank episode where the show panel declined funding the startup.
1005		in late 2017, siminoff appeared on shopping television channel qvc.
1006		ring also settled a lawsuit with competing security company, the adt corporation.
1007		while one experimental vaccine appears able to reduce ebola mortality, up until now, no drugs have been clearly demonstrated suitable for treating existing infection.
1008		one antibody cocktail, zmapp, initially showed promise in the field, but formal studies indicated it had less benefit than sought in preventing death.
1009		in the palm trial, zmapp served as a control, meaning scientists used it as a baseline and compared the three other treatments to it.
1010		usa gymnastics supports the united states olympic committee's letter and accepts the absolute need of the olympic family to promote a safe environment for all of our athletes.
1011		we agree with the usoc's statement that the interests of our athletes and clubs, and their sport, may be better served by moving forward with meaningful change within our organization, rather than decertification.
1012		usa gymnastics supports an independent investigation that may shine light on how abuse of the proportion described so courageously by the survivors of larry nassar could have gone undetected for so long and embraces any necessary and appropriate changes.
1013		usa gymnastics and the usoc have the same goal — making the sport of gymnastics, and others, as safe as possible for athletes to follow their dreams in a safe, positive and empowered environment.
1014		throughout 1960s, brzezinski worked for john f. kennedy as his advisor and then the lyndon b. johnson administration.
1015		during the 1976 selections he advised carter on foreign policy, then served as national security advisor (nsa) from 1977 to 1981, succeeding henry kissinger.
1016		as nsa, he assisted carter in diplomatically handling world affairs, such as the camp david accords, 1978; normalizing us–china relations thought the late 1970s; the iranian revolution, which led to the iran hostage crisis, 1979; and the soviet invasion in afghanistan, 1979.
1017		the movie, featuring ryan gosling and emma stone, received nominations in all major categories.
1018		gosling and stone received nominations for best actor and actress respectively.
1019		the other nominations include best picture, director, cinematography, costume design, film-editing, original score, production design, sound editing, sound mixing and original screenplay.
1020		two songs from the movie, audition (the fools who dream) and city of stars, received nominations for best original song. lionsgate studio received 26 nominations — more than any other studio.
1021		late on sunday, the united states president donald trump, in a statement delivered via the press secretary, announced us troops would be leaving syria.
1022		the announcement was made after trump had a phone conversation with turkish president recep tayyip erdoğan.
1023		turkey would also take over guarding captured isis fighters which, the statement said, european nations have refused to repatriate.
1024		this not only confirms that at least some dinosaurs had feathers, a theory already widespread, but provides details fossils generally cannot, such as color and three-dimensional arrangement.
1025		. scientists say this animal's plumage was chestnut-brown on top with a pale or carotenoid-colored underside.
1026		the find also grants insight into the evolution of feathers in birds.
1027		because the dinosaur feathers do not have a well-developed shaft, called a rachis, but do have other features of feathers — barbs and barbules — the researchers inferred the rachis was likely a later evolutionary development that these other features.
1028		the feathers' structure suggests that they were not used in flight but rather for temperature regulation or display. the researchers suggested that, even though this is the tail of a young dinosaur, the sample shows adult plumage and not a chick's down.
1029		the researchers suggested that, even though this is the tail of a young dinosaur, the sample shows adult plumage and not a chick's down.
1030		a car bomb detonated at police headquarters in gaziantep, turkey yesterday morning killed two police officers and injured more than twenty other people.
1031		the governor's office said nineteen of the injured were police officers.
1032		police said they suspect an alleged daesh (isil) militant of responsibility for the attack.
1033		they found the sun operated on the same basic principles as other stars: the activity of all stars in the system was found to be driven by their luminosity, their rotation, and nothing else.
1034		the luminosity and rotation are used together to determine a star's rossby number, which is related to plasma flow.
1035		the smaller the rossby number, the less active the star with respect to magnetic reversals.
1036		during his trip, iwasaki ran into trouble on many occasions.
1037		he was robbed by pirates, attacked in tibet by a rabid dog, escaped marriage in nepal and was arrested in india.
1038		the 802.11n standard operates on both the 2.4ghz and 5.0ghz frequencies.
1039		this will allow it to be backwards compatible with 802.11a, 802.11b and 802.11g, provided that the base station has dual radios.
1040		the speeds of 802.11n are substantially faster than that of its predecessors with a maximum theoretical throughput of 600mbit/s.
1041		duvall, who is married with two adult children, did not leave a big impression on miller, to whom the story was related.
1042		when asked for comment, miller said, "mike talks a lot during the hearing...i was getting ready so i wasn't really hearing what he was saying."
1043		"we will endeavour to cut carbon dioxide emissions per unit of gdp by a notable margin by 2020 from the 2005 level," hu said.
1044		he did not set a figure for the cuts, saying they will be made based on china's economic output.
1045		hu encouraged developing countries "to avoid the old path of polluting first and cleaning up later."
1046		he added that "they should not, however, be asked to take on obligations that go beyond their development stage, responsibility and capabilities."
1047		the iraq study group presented its report at 12.00 gmt today.
1048		it warns no one can guarantee that any course of action in iraq at this point will stop sectarian warfare, growing violence, or a slide toward chaos.
1049		the report opens with plea for open debate and the formation of a consensus in the united states about the policy towards the middle east.
1050		the report is highly critical of almost every aspect of the present policy of the executive towards iraq and it urges an immediate change of direction.
1051		first among its 78 recommendations is that a new diplomatic initiative should be taken before the end of this year to secure iraq’s borders against hostile interventions and to re-establish diplomatic relations with its neighbors.
1052		current senator and argentine first lady cristina fernandez de kirchner announced her presidential candidacy yesterday evening in la plata, a city 50 kilometers (31 miles) away from buenos aires.
1053		mrs. kirchner announced her intention to run for president at the argentine theatre, the same location she used to start her 2005 campaign for the senate as member of the buenos aires province delegation.
1054		the debate was sparked by controversy over spending on relief and reconstruction in the wake hurricane katrina; which some fiscal conservatives have humorously labeled "bush's new orleans deal."
1055		liberal criticism of the reconstruction effort has focused on the awarding of reconstruction contracts to perceived washington insiders.
1056		over four million people went to rome to attend the funeral.
1057		the number of people present was so large that it was not possible for everybody to gain access to the funeral in st. peter's square.
1058		several large television screens were installed in various places in rome to let the people watch the ceremony.
1059		in many other cities of italy and in the rest of the world, particularly in poland, similar setups were made, which were viewed by a great number of people.
1060		historians have criticized past fbi policies for focusing resources on cases which are easy to solve, especially stolen car cases, with the intent of boosting the agency's success rate.
1061		congress began funding the obscenity initiative in fiscal 2005 and specified that the fbi must devote 10 agents to adult pornography.
1062		robin uthappa made the innings highest score, 70 runs in just 41 balls by hitting 11 fours and 2 sixes.
1063		middle order batsmen, sachin tendulkar and rahul dravid, performed well and made a hundred-run partnership.
1064		but, after losing the captain's wicket india only made 36 runs loosing 7 wickets to end the innings.
1065		u.s. president george w. bush arrived in singapore the morning of november 16, beginning a week-long tour of asia.
1066		he was greeted by singapore's deputy prime minister wong kan seng and discussed trade and terrorism issues with the singapore prime minister lee hsien loong.
1067		after a week of losses in the midterm election, bush told an audience about the expansion of trade in asia.
1068		prime minister stephen harper has agreed to send the government's 'clean air act' to an all-party committee for review, before its second reading, after tuesday's 25 minute meeting with ndp leader jack layton at the pmo.
1069		layton had asked for changes to the conservatives' environmental bill during the meeting with the pm, asking for a "thorough and complete rewriting" of the conservative party's environmental bill.
1070		ever since the federal government stepped in to take over funding of the mersey hospital in devonport, tasmania, the state government and some federal mps have criticised this act as a stunt in the prelude to the federal election to be called by november.
1071		but prime minister john howard has said the act was only to safeguard the facilities of the hospital from being downgraded by the tasmanian government, in giving an extra aud$45 million.
1072		according to the latest bulletin, sea level readings indicated a tsunami was generated. there was some definite tsunami activity recorded near pago pago and niue.
1073		no major damage or injuries have been reported in tonga, but power was temporarily lost, which reportedly prevented tongan authorities from receiving the tsunami warning issued by the ptwc.
1074		fourteen schools in hawaii located on or near coastlines were closed all of wednesday despite the warnings being lifted.
1075		u.s. president george w. bush welcomed the announcement.
1076		bush spokesman gordon johndroe called north korea's pledge "a major step towards the goal of achieving the verifiable denuclearization of the korean peninsula."
1077		the tenth named storm of the atlantic hurricane season, subtropical storm jerry, formed in the atlantic ocean today.
1078		the national hurricane center (nhc) says that at this point jerry poses no threat to land.
1079		the u.s. corps of engineers estimated that 6 inches of rainfall could breach the previously damaged levees.
1080		the ninth ward, which saw flooding as high as 20 feet during hurricane katrina, is currently in waist-high water as the nearby levee was overtopped.
1081		water is spilling over the levee in a section 100 feet wide.
1082		commons administrator adam cuerden expressed his frustration over the deletions when he spoke to wikinews last month.
1083		"he [wales] basically lied to us from the start. first, by acting as if this was for legal reasons. second, by pretending he was listening to us, right up to his art deletion."
1084		the community irritation led to current efforts to draft a policy regarding sexual content for the site which hosts millions of openly-licensed media.
1085		the work done was mostly theoretical, but the program was written to simulate observations made of the sagittarius galaxy.
1086		the effect the team was looking for would be caused by tidal forces between the galaxy's dark matter and the milky way's dark matter.
1087		just like the moon exerts a pull on the earth, causing tides, so does the milky way exert a force on the sagittarius galaxy.
1088		the scientists were able to conclude that the dark matter affect other dark matter in the same way regular matter does.
1089		this theory says that most dark matter around a galaxy is located around a galaxy in a kind of halo, and is made of lots of small particles.
1090		television reports show white smoke coming from the plant.
1091		local authorities are warning residents in the vicinity of the plant to stay indoors, turn off air-conditioners and not to drink tap water.
1092		according to japan's nuclear agency, radioactive caesium and iodine has been identified at the plant.
1093		authorities speculate that this indicates that containers holding uranium fuel at the site may have ruptured and are leaking.
1094		dr. tony moll discovered the extremely drug resistant tuberculosis (xdr-tb) in the south african region kwazulu-natal.
1095		in an interview, he said the new variant was "very highly troubling and alarming because of the very high fatality rate."
1096		some patients might have contracted the bug in the hospital, dr. moll thinks, and at least two were hospital health workers.
1097		in one year's time, an infected person may infect 10 to 15 close contacts.
1098		however, the percentage of xdr-tb in the entire group of people with tuberculosis still seems to be low; 6,000 of the total 330,000 people infected at any particular moment in south africa.
1099		the satellites, both of which weighed in excess of 1,000 pounds, and traveling at approximately 17,500 miles per hour, collided 491 miles above the earth.
1100		scientists say the explosion caused by the collision was massive.
1101		they are still trying to determine just how large the crash was and how the earth will be affected.
1102		the united states strategic command of the u.s. department of defense office is tracking the debris.
1103		the result of plotting analysis will be posted to a public website.
1104		a doctor who worked at children's hospital of pittsburgh, pennsylvania will be charged with aggravated murder after her mother was found dead in the trunk of her car wednesday, authorities in ohio say.
1105		dr. malar balasubramanian, 29, was found in blue ash, ohio, a suburb approximately 15 miles north of cincinnati lying on the ground beside the road in a t-shirt and underwear in an apparently heavily medicated state.
1106		she directed officers to her black oldsmobile intrigue which was 500 feet away.
1107		there, they found the body of saroja balasubramanian, 53, covered with blood-stained blankets.
1108		police said that the body appeared to have been there for about a day.
1109		the first cases of the disease this season were reported in late july.
1110		the disease is carried by pigs, which then migrates to humans through mosquitos.
1111		the outbreak has prompted the indian government to undertake such measures as deployment of pig catchers in seriously affected areas, distributing thousands of mosquito curtains and spraying pesticides.
1112		several million vials of encephalitis vaccine have also been promised by the government, which will help prepare health agencies for next year.
1113		plans for vaccines to be delivered to the historically most affected areas this year were delayed due to lack of funds and low prioritisation relative to other diseases.
1114		in 1956 słania moved to sweden, where three years later he began work for the swedish post office and became their chief engraver.
1115		he produced over 1,000 stamps for sweden and 28 other countries.
1116		his work is of such recognized quality and detail that he is one of the very few "household names" among philatelists. some specialize in collecting his work alone.
1117		his 1,000th stamp was the magnificent "great deeds by swedish kings" by david klöcker ehrenstrahl in 2000, which is listed in the guinness book of world records.
1118		he was also engaged in engraving banknotes for many countries, recent examples of his work including the prime ministerial portraits on the front of the new canadian $5 and $100 bills.
1119		after the accident occurred, gibson was transported to a hospital but died shortly afterwards.
1120		the truck driver, who is aged 64, was not injured in the crash.
1121		the vehicle itself was taken away from the scene of the accident at approximately 1200 gmt on the same day.
1122		a person working in a garage near where the accident occurred said: "there were children waiting to cross the road and they were all screaming and crying."
1123		they all ran back from where the accident had happened.
1124		other subjects on the agenda in bali include saving the world's remaining forests, and sharing technologies to help developing nations grow in less-polluting ways.
1125		the u.n. also hopes to finalize a fund to help countries affected by global warming to cope with the impacts.
1126		the money could go toward flood-proof houses, better water management, and crop diversification.
1127		fluke wrote that the efforts by some to drown out women from speaking out about women’s health were unsuccessful.
1128		she came to this conclusion due to the multitude of positive comments and encouragement sent to her by both female and male individuals urging that contraception medication be considered a medical necessity.
1129		when the fighting ceased after the wounded were transported to the hospital, about 40 of the other remaining inmates stayed in the yard and refused to return to their cells.
1130		negotiators tried to rectify the situation, but the prisoners' demands are not clear.
1131		between 10:00-11:00 pm mdt, a fire was started by the inmates in the yard.
1132		soon, officers equipped with riot gear entered the yard and cornered the inmates with tear gas.
1133		fire rescue crews eventually doused the fire by 11:35 pm.
1134		after the dam was built in 1963, the seasonal floods that would spread sediment throughout the river were halted.
1135		this sediment was necessary for creating sandbars and beaches, which served as wildlife habitats.
1136		as a result, two fish species have become extinct, and two others have become endangered, including the humpback chub.
1137		although the water level will only rise a few feet after the flood, officials are hoping it will be enough to restore eroded sandbars downstream.
1138		no tsunami warning has been issued, and according to the jakarta geophysics agency, no tsunami warning will be issued because the quake did not meet the magnitude 6.5 requirement.
1139		despite there being no tsunami threat, residents started to panic and began to leave their businesses and homes.
1140		although winfrey was tearful in her farewell, she made it clear to her fans she will be back.
1141		"this is not going to be goodbye. this is the closing of one chapter and the opening of a new one."
1142		final results from namibian presidential and parliamentary elections have indicated that the incumbent president, hifikepunye pohamba, has been reelected by a large margin.
1143		the ruling party, south west africa people's organisation (swapo), also retained a majority in the parliamentary elections.
1144		coalition and afghan troops moved into the area to secure the site and other coalition aircraft have been sent to assist.
1145		the crash occurred high up in mountainous terrain, and is believed to have been the result of hostile fire.
1146		efforts to search for the crash site are being met by bad weather and harsh terrain.
1147		the medical charity mangola, medecines sans frontieres and the world health organisation say it is the worst outbreak recorded in the country.
1148		spokesman for medecines sans frontiere richard veerman said: "angola is heading for its worst ever outbreak and the situation remains very bad in angola," he said.
1149		the games kicked off at 10:00am with great weather and apart from mid morning drizzle which quickly cleared up, it was a perfect day for 7's rugby.
1150		tournament top seeds south africa started on the right note when they had a comfortable 26 - 00 win against 5th seeded zambia.
1151		looking decidedly rusty in the game against their southern sisters, south africa however steadily improved as the tournament progressed.
1152		their disciplined defence, ball handling skills and excellent team work made them stand out and it was clear that this was the team to beat.
1153		officials for the city of amsterdam and the anne frank museum state that the tree is infected with a fungus and poses a public health hazard as they argue that it was in imminent danger of falling over.
1154		it had been scheduled to be cut down on tuesday, but was saved after an emergency court ruling.
1155		all of the cave entrances, which were named "the seven sisters", are at least 100 to 250 meters (328 to 820 feet) in diameter.
1156		infrared images show that the temperature variations from night and day show that they are likely caves.
1157		"they are cooler than the surrounding surface in the day and warmer at night.
1158		their thermal behavior is not as steady as large caves on earth that often maintain a fairly constant temperature, but it is consistent with these being deep holes in the ground," said glen cushing of the united states geological survey (usgs) astrogeology team and of northern arizona university located in flagstaff, arizona.
1159		in france, voting has traditionally been a low-tech experience: voters isolate themselves in a booth, put a pre-printed sheet of paper indicating their candidate of choice into an envelope.
1160		after officials verify the voter's identity, the voter drops the envelope into the ballot box and signs the voting roll.
1161		french electoral law rather strictly codifies the proceedings.
1162		since 1988, ballot boxes must be transparent so that voters and observers can witness that no envelopes are present at the start of the vote and that no envelopes are added except those of the duly counted and authorized voters.
1163		candidates can send representatives to witness every part of the process. in the evening, votes are counted by volunteers under heavy supervision, following specific procedures.
1164		asus eee pc, earlier launched world-wide for cost-saving and functionality factors, became a hot topic in 2007 taipei it month.
1165		but the consumer market on laptop computer will be radically varied and changed after asus was awarded in the 2007 taiwan sustainable award by executive yuan of the republic of china.
1166		the station's web site describes the show as "old school radio theater with a new and outrageous geeky spin!"
1167		in its early days, the show was featured solely at the long-running internet radio site toginet radio, a site focused on talk radio.
1168		in late 2015, toginet established astronet radio as a subsidiary station.
1169		the show originally featured amateur voice actors, local to east texas.
1170		widespread looting reportedly continued overnight, as law enforcement officers were not present on bishkek's streets.
1171		bishkek was described as sinking into a state of "anarchy" by one observer, as gangs of people roamed the streets and plundered stores of consumer goods.
1172		several bishkek residents blamed protesters from the south for the lawlessness.
1173		south africa have defeated the all blacks (new zealand) in a rugby union tri nations match at the royal bafokeng stadium in rustenburg, south africa.
1174		the final score was a one-point victory, 21 to 20, ending the all blacks' 15 game winning streak.
1175		for the springboks, it ended a five-match losing streak.
1176		it was the final match for the all blacks, who had already won the trophy two weeks ago.
1177		the final match of the series will take place at ellis park in johannesburg next week, when the springboks play australia.
1178		a moderate earthquake shook western montana at 10:08 p.m. on monday.
1179		no immediate reports of damage have been received by the united states geological survey (usgs) and its national earthquake information center.
1180		the earthquake was centered about 20 km (15 miles) north-northeast of dillon, and about 65 km (40 miles) south of butte.
1181		the strain of bird flu lethal to humans, h5n1, has been confirmed to have infected a dead wild duck, found on monday, in marshland near lyon in the east of france.
1182		france is the seventh country in the european union to suffer this virus; following austria, germany, slovenia, bulgaria, greece and italy.
1183		suspected cases of h5n1 in croatia and denmark remain unconfirmed.
1184		chambers had sued god for "widespread death, destruction and terrorization of millions upon millions of the earth's inhabitants."
1185		chambers, an agnostic, argues that his lawsuit is "frivolous" and "anybody can sue anybody."
1186		the story presented in the french opera, by camille saint-saens, is of an artist "whose life is dictated by a love for drugs and japan."
1187		as a result, the performers smoke cannabis joints on stage, and the theatre itself is encouraging the audience to join in.
1188		former house speaker newt gingrich, texas governor rick perry, and congresswoman michele bachmann finished in fourth, fifth, and sixth place, respectively.
1189		after the results came in, gingrich lauded santorum, but had tough words for romney, on whose behalf negative campaign advertisements were aired in iowa against gingrich.
1190		perry stated that he would "return to texas to assess the results of tonight's caucus, determine whether there is a path forward for myself in this race", but later said that he would remain in the race and compete in the january 21 south carolina primary.
1191		bachmann, who won the ames straw poll in august, decided to end her campaign.
1192		the photographer was transported to ronald reagan ucla medical center, where he subsequently died.
1193		he was reportedly aged in his 20s. in a statement, bieber said "[w]hile i was not present nor directly involved with this tragic accident, my thoughts and prayers are with the family of the victim."
1194		entertainment news website tmz understands the photographer stopped his vehicle on the other side of sepulveda boulevard and attempted to take pictures of the police stop before crossing the road and continuing, prompting the california highway patrol police officer conducting the traffic stop to order him back across, twice.
1195		according to police, the driver of the vehicle that hit the photographer is unlikely to face criminal charges.
1196		with only eighteen medals available a day, a number of countries have failed to make the medal podium.
1197		they include the netherlands, with anna jochemsen finishing ninth in the women's standing class in the super-g yesterday, and finland with katja saarinen finishing tenth in the same event.
1198		australia's mitchell gourley finished eleventh in the men's standing super-g. czech competitor oldrich jelinek finished sixteenth in the men's sitting super-g.
1199		arly velasquez of mexico finished fifteenth in the men's sitting super-g. new zealand's adam hall finished ninth in the men's standing super-g.
1200		poland's men's visually impaired skier maciej krezel and guide anna ogarzynska finished thirteenth in the super-g. south korea's jong seork park finished twenty-fourth in the men's sitting super-g.
1201		un peacekeepers, whom arrived in haiti after the 2010 earthquake, are being blamed for the spread of the disease which started near the troop's encampment.
1202		according to the lawsuit, waste from the un camp was not properly sanitized, causing bacteria to enter the tributary of the artibonite river, one of haiti's largest.
1203		prior to the arrival of troops, haiti had not encountered problems related to the disease since the 1800s.
1204		the haitian institute for justice and democracy has referenced independent studies that suggest the nepalese un peacekeeping battalion unknowingly brought the disease to haiti.
1205		danielle lantagne, a un expert on the disease, stated the outbreak was likely caused by the peacekeepers.
1206		hamilton confirmed howard university hospital admitted the patient in stable condition.
1207		the patient had been to nigeria, where some cases of the ebola virus have occurred.
1208		the hospital has followed protocol for infection control, including separating the patient from others to prevent possible infection of others.
1209		before the simpsons simon had worked on several shows in various positions.
1210		during the 1980s he worked on shows such as taxi, cheers, and the tracy ullman show.
1211		in 1989 he helped create the simpsons with brooks and groening, and was responsible for hiring the show's first writing team.
1212		despite leaving the show in 1993 he kept the title of executive producer, and continued to receive tens of millions of dollars every season in royalties.
1213		earlier the chinese news agency xinhua reported a plane to be hijacked.
1214		later reports then stated the plane received a bomb threat and was diverted back to afghanistan, landing in kandahar.
1215		the early reports say the plane was diverted back to afghanistan after being denied an emergency landing in ürümqi.
1216		air accidents are common in iran, which has an aging fleet that is poorly maintained both for civil and military operations.
1217		international sanctions have meant that new aircraft cannot be purchased.
1218		earlier this week, a police helicopter crash killed three people and wounded three more.
1219		last month iran saw its worst air disaster in years when an airliner heading to armenia crashed, killing the 168 on board.
1220		the same month saw another airliner overrun a runway at mashhad and strike a wall, killing seventeen.
1221		aerosmith have cancelled their remaining concerts on their tour.
1222		the rock band was due to tour the united states and canada until september 16.
1223		they have cancelled the tour after lead singer steven tyler was injured after he fell off stage while performing on august 5.
1224		murray lost the first set in a tie break after both men held each and every serve in the set.
1225		del potro had the early advantage in the second set, but this too required a tie break after reaching 6-6.
1226		potro received treatment to his shoulder at this point but managed to return to the game.
1227		the program started at 8:30 p.m. local time (15.00 utc).
1228		famous singers across the country presented bhajans, or devotional songs, to shri shyam's feet.
1229		singer sanju sharma started the evening, followed by jai shankar choudhary. esented the chhappan bhog bhajan as well. singer, raju khandelwal was accompanying him.
1230		then, lakkha singh took the lead in singing the bhajans.
1231		108 plates of chhappan bhog (in hinduism, 56 different edible items, like, sweets, fruits, nuts, dishes etc. which are offered to deity) were served to baba shyam.
1232		lakkha singh presented the chhappan bhog bhajan as well. singer, raju khandelwal was accompanying him.
1233		at thursday's keynote presentation of the tokyo game show, nintendo president satoru iwata unveiled the controller design for the company's new nintendo revolution console.
1234		resembling a television remote, the controller uses two sensors placed near the user's television to triangulate its position in three-dimensional space.
1235		this will allow players to control actions and movements in video games by moving the device through the air.
1236		giancarlo fisichella lost control of his car and ended the race very soon after the start.
1237		his teammate fernando alonso was in the lead for most of the race, but ended it right after his pit-stop, probably because a badly tucked right front wheel.
1238		michael schumacher ended his race not long after alonso, because of the suspension damage in the numerous battles during the race.
1239		"she’s very cute and sings quite well, too," he said according to a transcript of the news conference.
1240		"i was moved every time we did a rehearsal on this, from the bottom of my heart."
1241		around 3 minutes into the launch, an on-board camera showed numerous pieces of insulation foam break away from the fuel tank.
1242		however, they are not thought to have caused any damage to the shuttle.
1243		nasa's shuttle program chief n. wayne hale jr. said the foam had fallen "after the time we are concerned about."
1244		five minutes into the display a wind starts rolling in, about a minute later, the wind is reaching 70km/h... then the rain comes, but so hard and so large that it slaps your skin like a needle, then hail fell from the sky, people panicking and screaming and running over each other.
1245		i lost my sister and her friend, and on my way there were two disabled people in wheelchairs, people just jumping over and pushing them," armand versace said.
1246		nhk also reported that the kashiwazaki kariwa nuclear power plant in niigata prefecture was operating normally.
1247		hokuriku electric power co. reported no effects from the earthquake and that the number 1 and 2 reactors at its shika nuclear power plant were shut down.
1248		it is reported that some 9400 homes in the region are without water and approximately 100 without electricity.
1249		some roads have been damaged, railway service interrupted in the affected areas, and the noto airport in ishikawa prefecture remains closed.
1250		one bomb exploded outside the governor general's office.
1251		three more bombs exploded near government buildings in a period of two hours.
1252		some reports put the official death toll at eight, and official reports confirm that up to 30 were injured; but final numbers are not yet known.
1253		both cyanuric acid and melamine were found in urine samples from pets that died after consuming contaminated pet food.
1254		the two compounds react with one another to form crystals that may block kidney function, researchers at the university said.
1255		the researchers observed crystals formed in cat urine by the addition of melamine and cyanuric acid.
1256		the composition of these crystals matches those found in the urine of affected pets when compared by infrared spectroscopy (ftir).
1257		i don't know if you realize it or not, but most of the goods from central america came into this country duty-free.
1258		yet eighty percent of our goods were taxed through tariffs in central american countries. we treat you.
1259		that didn't seem to make sense to me; it certainly wasn't fair.
1260		all i say to people is you treat us the way we treat you.
1261		california governor arnold schwarzenegger signed into law a bill that bans the sale or rental of violent video games to minors.
1262		the bill requires violent video games sold in the state of california to be labeled with a decal reading "18" and makes their sale to a minor punishable by a fine of $1000 per offense.
1263		the director of public prosecutions, kier starmer qc, gave a statement this morning announcing the prosecution of both huhne and pryce.
1264		huhne has resigned and he will be replaced in the cabinet by ed davey mp. norman lamb mp is expected to take the business minister job davey is vacating.
1265		huhne and pryce are scheduled to appear at the westminster magistrates court on february 16.
1266		the fatalities were nicholas alden, 25, and zachary cuddeback, 21. cuddeback had been the driver.
1267		edgar veguilla received arm and jaw wounds while kristoffer schneider was left requiring reconstructive surgery for his face.
1268		uka's weapon failed whilst pointed at a fifth man's head. schneider has ongoing pain, blindness in one eye, a missing section of skull and a face rebuilt from titanium.
1269		schneider testified via videolink from a usaf base in his homeland.
1270		beyond wednesday's event, carpanedo competed in two individual races at the championships.
1271		her first was the slalom, where she earned a did not finish in her first run. 36 of the 116 competitors had the same result in that race.
1272		her other race, the giant slalom, saw her finish in tenth in the women's sitting group with a combined run time of 4:41.30, 2:11.60 minutes slower than first place finisher austrian claudia loesch and 1:09.02 minutes slower than the ninth place finisher gyöngyi dani of hungary.
1273		four skiers in the women's sitting group failed to finish their runs, and 45 of the 117 total skiers in the giant slalom failed to rank in the race.
1274		the madhya pradesh police recovered the stolen laptop and mobile phone.
1275		deputy inspector general d k arya said, "we have arrested five persons who raped the swiss woman and recovered her mobile and laptop".
1276		the accused are named as baba kanjar, bhutha kanjar, rampro kanjar, gaza kanjar and vishnu kanjar.
1277		police superintendent chandra shekhar solanki said the accused appeared in court with covered faces.
1278		although three people were inside the house when the car impacted it, none of them were hurt.
1279		however, the driver sustained serious injuries to the head.
1280		the road where the crash happened was temporarily closed while emergency services freed the driver from the red audi tt.
1281		he was initially hospitalised in the james paget hospital in great yarmouth.
1282		he was subsequently relocated to addenbrooke's hospital in cambridge.
1283		adekoya has since been in edinburgh sheriff court charged with murdering her son.
1284		she is in custody pending indictment and trial, but any eyewitness evidence may be tainted because her image has been widely published.
1285		this is common practice elsewhere in the uk but scottish justice works differently and courts have viewed publication of photos as potentially prejudicial.
1286		professor pamela ferguson of the university of dundee notes "journalists do seem to be walking a dangerous line if publishing photos etc of suspects."
1287		crown office, which is in overall charge of prosecutions, has indicated to journalists that no further comment will be made at least until indictment.
1288		the document, according to the leak, will refer to the borders dispute, which palestine wants based on the borders before the 1967 mideast war.
1289		other topics covered reportedly include the future state of jerusalem which is sacred to both nations and the jordan valley issue.
1290		israel demands an ongoing military presence in the valley for ten years once an agreement is signed while the pa agrees to leave such presence only for five years.
1291		shooters in the supplementary pest control trial were to be closely supervised by rangers, as the trial was monitored and its effectiveness evaluated.
1292		in a partnership of npws and the sporting shooters association of australia (nsw) inc, qualified volunteers were recruited, under the sporting shooters association's hunting program.
1293		according to mick o'flynn, the acting director park conservation and heritage with the npws, the four shooters selected for the first shooting operation received comprehensive safety and training instruction.
1294		martelly swore in a new provisional electoral council (cep) of nine members yesterday.
1295		it is martelly's fifth cep in four years.
1296		last month a presidential commission recommended the prior cep's resignation as part of a package of measures to move the country towards new elections.
1297		the commission was martelly's response to widespread anti-regime protests that started in october.
1298		the sometimes-violent protests were triggered by failure to hold elections, some due since 2011.
1299		around 60 cases of malfunctioning ipods overheating have been reported, causing a total of six fires and leaving four people with minor burns.
1300		japan's ministry of economy, trade and industry (meti) said that it had been aware of 27 accidents related to the devices.
1301		last week, meti announced that apple had informed it of 34 additional overheating incidents, which the company called "non-serious."
1302		the ministry responded by calling apple's postponement of the report "truly regrettable."
1303		the eathquake struck mariana at 07:19 a.m. local time (09:19 p.m. gmt friday).
1304		the northern marianas emergency management office said that there were no damages reported in the nation.
1305		also the pacific tsunami warning center said that there was no tsunami indication.
1306		a former filipino policeman has kept hong kong tourists hostage by hijacking their bus in manila, the capital of the philippines.
1307		rolando mendoza fired his m16 rifle at the tourists.
1308		several hostages have been rescued and least six have been confirmed dead so far.
1309		six hostages, including the children and elderly, were released early, as were the filipino photographers.
1310		the photographers later took the place of an aged lady as she needed the lavatory. mendoza was gunned down.
1311		liggins followed in his father’s footsteps and entered a career in medicine.
1312		he trained as an obstetrician and began to work at the auckland's national women's hospital in 1959.
1313		while he was working at the hospital liggins began to investigate premature labor during his spare time.
1314		his research showed that if a hormone was administered it would speed up the baby's foetal lung maturation.
1315		xinhua reported that government investigators recovered two 'black box' flight recorders on wednesday.
1316		fellow wrestlers also paid tribute to luna.
1317		tommy dreamer said "luna was the first queen of extreme. my first manager. luna passed away on the night of two moons. pretty unique just like her. strong woman."
1318		dustin "goldust" runnels commented that "luna was as freaky as me...maybe even more...love her and will miss her...hopefully she's in a better place."
1319		out of 1,400 people polled prior to the 2010 federal election, those who oppose australia becoming a republic grew by 8 per cent since 2008.
1320		caretaker prime minister julia gillard claimed during the campaign of the 2010 federal election that she believed australia should become a republic at the end of queen elizabeth ii's reign.
1321		34 per cent of those in the poll share this view, wanting queen elizabeth ii to be australia's last monarch.
1322		at the extremes of the poll, 29 per cent of those surveyed believe australia should become a republic as soon as possible, while 31 per cent believe australia should never become a republic.
1323		the olympic gold medalist was due to swim in the 100m and 200m freestyle and in three relays at the commonwealth games, but due to his complaints his fitness has been in doubt.
1324		he has been unable to take the drugs needed to overcome his pain as they are banned from the games.
1325		curtis cooper, a mathematician and computer science professor at the university of central missouri, has discovered the largest known prime number to date on january 25.
1326		several people verified the discovery using different hardware and software by the beginning of february and it was announced on tuesday.
1327		comets may possibly have been a source of water delivery to the earth along with organic matter that can form proteins and support life.
1328		scientists hope to understand how planets form, especially how the earth formed, since comets collided with the earth long ago.
1329		cuomo, 53, began his governorship earlier this year and signed a bill last month legalizing same-sex marriage.
1330		he referred to the rumors as "political chatter and silliness".
1331		he is speculated to make a run for president in 2016.
1332		nextgen is a system the faa claims would allow aircraft to fly shorter routes and save millions of gallons of fuel each year and cut carbon emissions.
1333		it uses satellite-based technology as opposed to older ground-radar-based technology to allow air traffic controllers to pinpoint aircraft with greater precision and give pilots more accurate information.
1334		no extra transport is being put on and overground trains will not stop at wembley, and car parking and park-and-ride facilities are unavailable at the ground.
1335		fears of lack of transportation raised the possibility that the game would be forced to play behind closed doors without the team's supporters.
1336		a study published on thursday in the journal science reported on formation of a new bird species on the ecuadorean galápagos islands.
1337		researchers from princeton university in the united states and uppsala university in sweden reported the new species evolved in just two generations, though this process had been believed to take much longer, due to breeding between an endemic darwin finch, geospiza fortes, and the immigrant cactus finch, geospiza conirostris.
1338		gold may be worked into all sorts of shapes. it can be rolled into tiny shapes.
1339		it can be pulled into thin wire, which can be twisted and plaited. it can be hammered or rolled into sheets.
1340		it can be made very thin, and stuck onto other metal. it can be made so thin that it was sometimes used to decorate the hand-painted pictures in books called "illuminated manuscripts".
1341		this is called a chemical's ph. you can make an indicator using red cabbage juice.
1342		the cabbage juice changes color depending on how acidic or basic (alkaline) the chemical is.
1343		the ph level is indicated by the amount of hydrogen (the h in ph) ions in the tested chemical.
1344		hydrogen ions are protons that had their electrons stripped off them (since hydrogen atoms consist of one proton and one electron).
1345		swirl the two dry powders together and then, with clean wet hands, squeeze them into a ball.
1346		the moisture on your hands will react with the outer layers, which will feel funny and form a sort of shell.
1347		the cities of harappa and mohenjo-daro had a flush toilet in almost every house, attached to a sophisticated sewage system.
1348		remains of sewage systems have been found in the houses of the minoan cities of crete and santorini in greece.
1349		there were also toilets in ancient egypt, persia and china. in roman civilization, toilets were sometimes part of public bath houses where men and women were together in mixed company.
1350		when you call someone who is thousands of miles away, you are using a satellite.
1351		the satellite in space gets the call and then reflects it back down, almost instantly.
1352		the satellite was sent into space by a rocket. scientists use telescopes in space because the earth’s atmosphere distorts some of our light and view.
1353		it takes a giant rocket over a 100 feet high to put a satellite or telescope in space.
1354		the wheel has changed the world in incredible ways. the biggest thing that the wheel has done for us is given us much easier and faster transportation.
1355		it has brought us the train, the car, and many other transportation devices.
1356		under them are more medium sized cats that eat medium sized prey ranging from rabbits to antelopes and deer.
1357		finally, there are many small cats (including loose pet cats) that eat the far more numerous small prey like insects, rodents, lizards, and birds.
1358		the secret to their success is the concept of the niche, a special job each cat holds that keeps it from competing with others.
1359		lions are the most social cats, living in large groups called prides.
1360		prides are made up of one to three related adult males, along with as many as thirty females and cubs.
1361		the females are usually closely related to each other, being a large family of sisters and daughters.
1362		lion prides act much like packs of wolves or dogs, animals surprisingly similar to lions (but not other big cats) in behavior, and also very deadly to their prey.
1363		a well rounded athlete, the tiger can climb (though not well), swim, leap great distances and pull with five times the force of a strong human.
1364		the tiger is in the same group (genus panthera) as lions, leopards, and jaguars. these four cats are the only ones who can roar.
1365		the tiger's roar is not like the full-voiced roar of a lion, but more like a sentence of snarly, shouted words.
1366		ocelots like to eat small animals. they will catch monkeys, snakes, rodents and birds if they can. almost all of the animals that the ocelot hunts are far smaller than it is.
1367		scientists think that ocelots follow and find animals to eat (prey) by smell, sniffing for where they've been on the ground.
1368		they can see very well in the dark with night vision, and move very stealthily, too. ocelots hunt their prey by blending in with their surroundings then pouncing on their prey.
1369		when a small group of living things (a small population) gets separated from the main population that they came from (like if they move over a mountain range or a river, or if they move to a new island so that they can't easily move back) they will often find themselves in a different environment than they were in before.
1370		this new environment has different resources and different competitors, so the new population will need different features or adaptations to be a strong competitor than what they had needed before.
1371		the original population hasn't changed at all, they still need the same adaptations as before.
1372		over time, as the new population begins to adapt to their new environment, they start to look less and less like the other population.
1373		eventually, after thousands or even millions of years, the two populations will look so different that they can't be called the same species.
1374		we call this process speciation, which just means the formation of new species. speciation is an unavoidable consequence and a very important part of evolution.
1375		plants make oxygen which humans breathe, and they take in carbon-dioxide which humans exhale (that is, breathe out).
1376		plants make their food from the sun by photosynthesis. they also provide shade.
1377		we make our houses from plants and make clothes from plants. most foods that we eat are plants. without plants, animals could not survive.
1378		mosasaurus was the apex predator of its time, so it feared nothing, except other mosasaurs.
1379		its long jaws were studded with more than 70 razor-sharp teeth, along with an extra set in the roof of its mouth, meaning that there was no escape for anything that crossed its path.
1380		we don't know for sure, but it may have had a forked tongue. its diet included turtles, large fish, other mosasaurs, and it may even have been a cannibal.
1381		it also attacked anything that entered the water; even a giant dinosaur such as t. rex would be no match for it.
1382		while most of their food would be familiar to us, romans did have their share of strange or unusual feast items, including wild boar, peacock, snails, and a type of rodent called a dormouse
1383		another difference was that while the poor people and the woman ate their food while sitting in chairs, the rich men liked to have banquets together where they would lounge on their sides while they ate their meals.
1384		ancient roman meals couldn't have included foods that came to europe from america or from asia in later centuries.
1385		for instance, they didn't have corn, nor tomatoes, nor potatoes, nor cocoa, and no ancient roman ever tasted a turkey.
1386		the babylonians built each of their gods a primary temple that was considered the home of the god.
1387		people would bring sacrifices to the gods and the priests would try to attend to the needs of the gods through ceremonies and festivals.
1388		each temple had an open temple courtyard and then an inner sanctuary that only the priests could enter.
1389		sometimes special pyramid shaped towers, called ziggurats, were built to be a part of the temples.
1390		the top of the tower was special sanctuary for the god.
1391		in the warm climate of the middle east, the house was not so important.
1392		most of the life of the hebrew family happened in the open air.
1393		women did the cooking in the yard; stores were just open counters looking into the street. stone was used for building houses.
1394		there were no large forests in the land of canaan, so wood was extremely expensive.
1395		greenland was settled sparsely. in the norse sagas they say that erik the red was exiled from iceland for murder, and when travelling further west, found greenland and named it greenland.
1396		but regardless of his discovery, eskimo tribes were already living there at the time.
1397		though each country was 'scandinavian', there were many differences between the people, kings, customs and history of denmark, sweden, norway and iceland.
1398		if you have watched the movie national treasure, you may think a treasure map was written on the back of the declaration of independence.
1399		however, that is not true. although there is something written on the back of the document, it is not a treasure map.
1400		written on the back of the declaration of independence were the words "original declaration of independence dated 4th july 1776". the text appears on the bottom of the document, upside down.
1401		while no one knows for certain who wrote it, it is known that early in its life, the large parchment document (it measures 29¾ inches by 24½ inches) was rolled up for storage.
1402		so, it is likely that the notation was added simply as a label.
1403		the d-day landings and the following battles had freed the north of france, but the south still wasn't free.
1404		it was ruled by the "vichy" french. these were french people who had made peace with the germans in 1940 and worked with the invaders instead of fighting them.
1405		on 15 august 1940, the allies invaded southern france, the invasion was called "operation dragoon".
1406		in just two weeks the americans and free french forces had liberated southern france and were turning towards germany.
1407		a civilization is a singular culture shared by a significant large group of people who live and work co-operatively, a society.
1408		the word civilization comes from the latin civilis, meaning civil, related to the latin civis, meaning citizen, and civitas, meaning city or city-state, and that also somehow defines the size of the society.
1409		city-states are the precursors of nations. a civilizational culture implies the passing on of knowledge across several generations, a lingering cultural footprint and fair dissemination.
1410		minor cultures often vanish without leaving relevant historic evidence and fail to be recognized as proper civilizations.
1411		during the revolutionary war, the thirteen states first formed a weak central government—with the congress being its only component—under the articles of confederation.
1412		congress lacked any power to impose taxes, and, because there was no national executive or judiciary, it relied on state authorities, who were often uncooperative, to enforce all its acts.
1413		it also had no authority to override tax laws and tariffs between states.
1414		the articles required unanimous consent from all the states before they could be amended and states took the central government so lightly that their representatives were often absent.
1415		italy's national football, along with german national football team is the second most successful team in the world and were the fifa world cup champions in 2006.
1416		popular sports include football, basketball, volleyball, water-polo, fencing, rugby, cycling, ice hockey, roller hockey and f1 motor racing.
1417		winter sports are most popular in the northern regions, with italians competing in international games and olympic events.
1418		japans holds nearly 7,000 islands (the biggest being honshu), making japan the 7th largest island in the world!
1419		due to the cluster/group of islands japan has, japan is often referred to, on a geographical stance, as an "archipelago"
1420		taiwan beginning start way back in 15th century where european sailors passing by record the island’s name as ilha formosa, or beautiful island.
1421		in 1624,dutch east india company establishes a base in southwestern taiwan, initiating a transformation in aboriginal grain production practices and employing chinese laborers to work on its rice and sugar plantations.
1422		in 1683, qing dynasty (1644-1912) forces take control of taiwan’s western and northern coastal areas and declared taiwan as a province of the qing empire in 1885.
1423		in 1895, after defeat in the first sino-japanese war (1894-1895), the qing government signs the treaty of shimonoseki, by which it cedes sovereignty over taiwan to japan, which rules the island until 1945.
1424		machu picchu consist of three main structures, namely intihuatana, the temple of the sun, and the room of the three windows.
1425		most of the buildings on the edges of the complex have been rebuilt in order to give tourists a better idea of how they originally appeared.
1426		by 1976, thirty percent of machu picchu had been restored and restoration continues till today.
1427		for example, the most common still image photography format in the world is 35mm, which was the dominant film size at the close of the analog film era.
1428		it is still produced today, but more importantly its aspect ratio has been inherited by digital camera image sensor formats.
1429		the 35mm format is actually, somewhat confusingly, 36mm in width by 24mm in height.
1430		the aspect ratio of this format (dividing by twelve to obtain the simplest whole-number ratio) is therefore said to be 3:2.
1431		many common formats (aps family of formats, for example) are equal to or closely approximate this aspect ratio.
1432		the much-abused and often-ridiculed rule of thirds is a simple guideline creating dynamism while keeping a measure of order in an image.
1433		it states that the most effective place for the main subject is at the intersection of lines dividing the image into thirds vertically and horizontally (see example).
1434		during this period of european history, the catholic church, which had become rich and powerful, came under scrutiny.
1435		for over a thousand years the christian religion had bound european states together despite differences in language and customs. i
1436		its all-pervading power affected everyone from king to commoner.
1437		one of the main christian tenets is that wealth should be used to alleviate suffering and poverty and that the monetary funds of the church are there specifically for that reason.
1438		the central authority of the church had been in rome for over a thousand years and this concentration of power and money led many to question whether this tenet was being met.
1439		soon after the outbreak of hostilities, britain initiated a naval blockade of germany.
1440		the strategy proved effective, cutting off vital military and civilian supplies, although this blockade violated generally accepted international law codified by several international agreements of the past two centuries.
1441		britain mined international waters to prevent any ships from entering entire sections of ocean, causing danger to even neutral ships.
1442		since there was limited response to this tactic, germany expected a similar response to its unrestricted submarine warfare.
1443		during the 1920s, the prevailing attitudes of most citizens and nations was that of pacifism and isolation.
1444		after seeing the horrors and atrocities of war during world war i, nations desired to avoid such a situation again in the future.
1445		in 1884, tesla moved to the united states of america to accept a job with the edison company in new york city.
1446		he arrived in the us with 4 cents to his name, a book of poetry, and a letter of recommendation from charles batchelor (his manager in his previous job) to thomas edison.
1447		ancient china had a unique way of showing different time periods; each stage of china or each family that was in power was a distinctive dynasty.
1448		also between each dynasty was an unstable age of divided provinces. the best-known of these periods was the three kingdoms epoch taking place for 60 years between the han and the jin dynasty.
1449		during these periods fierce warfare took place between many nobles fighting for the throne.
1450		the three kingdoms was one of the bloodiest eras in ancient china’s history thousands of people died fighting to sit in the highest seat in the grand palace at xi’an.
1451		there are a lot of social and political effects such as the use of metric system, a shift from absolutism to republicanism, nationalism and the belief the country belongs to the people not to one sole ruler.
1452		also after the revolution occupations were open to all male applicants allowing the most ambitious and successful to succeed.
1453		same goes for the military because instead of army rankings being based on class they were now based on cailaber.
1454		the french revolution also inspired many other repressed working class people of other country's to began their own revolutions.
1455		muhammad was deeply interested in matters beyond this mundane life. he used to frequent a cave that became known as “hira‘” on the mountain of “noor” (light) for contemplation.
1456		he cave itself, which survived the times, gives a very vivid image of muhammad’s spiritual inclinations.
1457		resting on the top of one of the mountains north of mecca, the cave is completely isolated from the rest of the world.
1458		in fact, it is not easy to find at all even if one knew it existed. once inside the cave, it is a total isolation.
